
repelled:
her long life, wasn't really repelled by gregor.  just by chance one - position: 6

quickly:
to feel the place with one of his legs he drew it quickly back - position: 13
went.  how had his sister managed to get dressed so quickly? there - position: 11
breakfast things on it; when she reached the table she sat quickly - position: 12
going backwards in a straight line; so he began, as quickly as - position: 11
be got back into his room as quickly as possible.  nor would he ever - position: 8
newspaper.  quickly one after another, his eyes watering with - position: 2
she quickly dropped it all into a bin, closed it with its wooden - position: 2
things so that they could all forget about it as quickly as - position: 11
had she come in than she would quickly close the door as a - position: 8
him quickly forget his past when he had still been human.  he had - position: 2
quickly moving toward.  under his sister's experienced hand, the - position: 1
they quickly finished their letters. - position: 2

life:
sleep.  other travelling salesmen live a life of luxury.  for - position: 7
this job would provide for gregor for his entire life, and besides, - position: 10
must have been somebody in the flat.  "what a quiet life it is the - position: 11
felt a great pride that he was able to provide a life like that in - position: 12
his life.  for some reason, the tall, empty room where he was forced - position: 2
not been working - the first holiday in a life that had been full of - position: 9
seventeen, her life up till then had been very enviable, consisting - position: 3
life led by the family during these two months, must have made him - position: 1
life, that his father thought it necessary to always be extremely - position: 1
he became noticeably short of breath, even in his earlier life his - position: 11
him to spare gregor's life. - position: 5
look at them one after the other and say: "what a life! this is what - position: 12
her long life, wasn't really repelled by gregor.  just by chance one - position: 3
people in all walks of life. - position: 6

incredible:
himself away, as if he could remove the surprising, the incredible - position: 11

dying:
feed themselves.  and here i am, dying!" - position: 7

reported:
with no understanding.  what about if he reported sick? but that - position: 8
electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days - position: 6

standing:
companions around him.  he was standing up straight enough now; - position: 6
helpless; then they, too, became agitated; gregor's father, standing - position: 9
been in so much of a rush.  she had been standing there waiting and - position: 11

confidence:
enveloped in morning fog and the view had little confidence or cheer - position: 10
staff, in fact, if i can say this in confidence, a better overview - position: 10
and lacking in self confidence.  during the five years that he had - position: 5
unexpected confidence she had recently acquired, that made her - position: 2

letting:
that he would surprise even himself by letting go of the ceiling and - position: 8
instead of letting her disturb him for no reason whenever she felt - position: 3
without letting the women from him.  "what do you mean?", asked the - position: 2

boa:
a lady fitted out with a fur hat and fur boa who sat upright, - position: 11

mobility:
because of his injuries, gregor had lost much of his mobility - - position: 11

humbly:
help, his appeals were simply not understood, however much he humbly - position: 11

funny:
off his desk! and it's a funny sort of business to be sitting up - position: 7

profits:
- you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from - position: 11

knife:
a month earlier he had cut his finger slightly with a knife, he - position: 12

sooner:
unpleasant for him, now, whenever she entered the room.  no sooner - position: 11

binary:
1.e.6.  you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary, - position: 12

surplus:
this surplus money to reduce his father's debt to his boss, and the - position: 2

desperate:
to desperate conclusions.  at times like this he would direct his - position: 2

provide:
this job would provide for gregor for his entire life, and besides, - position: 4
felt a great pride that he was able to provide a life like that in - position: 10
they took the money with gratitude and he was glad to provide it, - position: 12
word processing or hypertext form.  however, if you provide access to or - position: 9
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a - position: 13
- you provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies - position: 2
- you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.f.3, a full refund of any - position: 2
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a - position: 7
volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the - position: 6
gutenberg literary archive foundation was created to provide a secure - position: 8

items:
hoped for, that several items of jewellery belonging to the family - position: 5

starting:
look", she suddenly screamed, "he's starting again!"   in her alarm, - position: 6

peacefully:
a proper human room although a little too small, lay peacefully - position: 11
true, he had not slept peacefully, but probably all the more deeply - position: 6
in tears while gregor was still lying peacefully on his back.  and - position: 8

responsibility:
responsibility and he could rest.  if, however, they took everything - position: 1

example:
example.  grete, who had not taken her eyes from the corpse, said: - position: 1

tears:
called his mother, who was already in tears, "he could be seriously - position: 8
in tears while gregor was still lying peacefully on his back.  and - position: 2
their tears would mingle, or they would simply sit there staring - position: 2
broke into convulsive tears.  her father, of course, was startled - position: 4
with anger, into the bedroom; his sister, quaking with tears, - position: 10
out in tears of emotion, and gregor would climb up to her shoulder - position: 3
more."  and she broke out so heavily in tears that they flowed down - position: 9
and tears that had taken hold of her, displacing her earlier - position: 2
question; his sister shook her hand vigorously through her tears as - position: 10

debt:
money together to pay off my parents' debt to him - another five or - position: 8
and concentration.  you're well aware that i'm seriously in debt to - position: 10
this surplus money to reduce his father's debt to his boss, and the - position: 8

sliding:
skirts unfastened and sliding one after another to the ground, - position: 4

eaten:
second time after everyone had eaten their meal at midday as his - position: 6
everything looked, what gregor had eaten, how he had behaved this - position: 6
again with the broom, indifferent as to whether it had been eaten or - position: 12

stood:
stood there upright; the lower part of his body was in serious pain - position: 1
prospects were.  now and then he stood up from the table and took - position: 7
little.  it was enough to attract his mother's attention.  she stood - position: 11
his father the way he stood there now; of late, with his new habit - position: 6
while she just stood there in amazement with her hands crossed in - position: 4
just lifted up one of the chairs from near the door and stood there - position: 13
the gentlemen stood as one, and mumbled something into their beards. - position: 3
smoking.  when the violin began playing they became attentive, stood - position: 10
stood pressed against each other.  someone must have heard them in - position: 1
become excited merely because she was and stood up half raising his - position: 8
changed, only his sister had stood up.  with his last glance he saw - position: 6
room.  they did so, and stood around gregor's corpse with their - position: 6
straight line towards the man.  at first, he stood there still, - position: 9
in irritation.  "well?", asked  mr. samsa.  the charwoman stood in - position: 9

feeding:
experience of his feeding than being told about it, and perhaps his - position: 4

place:
to feel the place with one of his legs he drew it quickly back - position: 4
the other door which was still held bolted in place.  in this way - position: 10
curious as to what she would bring in its place, imagining the - position: 10
eating and lay lethargic in the same place, his sister slowly turned - position: 8
pushed it from its place, his sister always taking on the heaviest - position: 5
now they threatened to remove the writing desk with its place - position: 11
slowly for his sake; who would place his stick down carefully and, - position: 7
even so his mother ought certainly not to have taken her place. - position: 12
1.d.  the copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern - position: 7

sudden:
only when he had reached the entrance hall that he made a sudden - position: 13
bolted and locked.  the sudden noise behind gregor so startled him - position: 5
jumped off after their friend as if taken with a sudden fear that - position: 11

hot:
onto the cool, leather sofa next to it, as he became quite hot with - position: 13
against its glass, it held him firmly and felt good on his hot - position: 13

tossed:
protrusions - then, right beside him, lightly tossed, something flew - position: 7

coats:
hands in the pockets of their well-worn coats. it was now quite - position: 8

chin:
clerk had already reached the stairs; with his chin on the banister, - position: 9

endure:
to be tortured like this, we can't endure it.  i can't endure it any - position: 8
to be tortured like this, we can't endure it.  i can't endure it any - position: 12

might:
part of his body might well, at present, be the most sensitive. - position: 5
care to do this not too loudly as even this might well sound - position: 11
state, or that his speech still might not - or probably would not - - position: 7
regard for what might happen.  one side of his body lifted itself, - position: 4
construed as friendly.  "he's enjoyed his dinner today", she might - position: 10
wink but scratching at the leather for hours on end.  or he might go - position: 13
still just a child after all, and really might not have had an - position: 9
swing to it; and up there, relaxed and almost happy, it might happen - position: 12
the sight of gregor, he might have made her ill, so gregor hurried - position: 6
who, because of him, might be near to death; he could not open the - position: 5
might see it as especially provoking if he fled onto the wall or - position: 1
so that she might be able to get a better position later on. - position: 4
might take some of it into his mouth to play with it, leave it there - position: 1
however nice they might be.  "i'd like to eat something", said - position: 4
way forward to his sister and tug at her skirt to show her she might - position: 15
silent sign to the men that they might like to come into gregor's - position: 8
mr. samsa might go into the hallway in front of them and break the - position: 3

project:
the project gutenberg ebook of metamorphosis, by franz kafka - position: 2
re-use it under the terms of the project gutenberg license included - position: 8
** this is a copyrighted project gutenberg ebook, details below ** - position: 6
*** start of this project gutenberg ebook metamorphosis *** - position: 5
end of the project gutenberg ebook of metamorphosis, by franz kafka - position: 4
*** end of this project gutenberg ebook metamorphosis *** - position: 5
copying and distributing project gutenberg-tm electronic works to - position: 4
protect the project gutenberg-tm concept and trademark.  project - position: 3
protect the project gutenberg-tm concept and trademark.  project - position: 8
the full project gutenberg license - position: 3
to protect the project gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free - position: 4
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "project - position: 12
gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the full project - position: 13
section 1.  general terms of use and redistributing project gutenberg-tm - position: 9
1.a.  by reading or using any part of this project gutenberg-tm - position: 10
all copies of project gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession. - position: 4
if you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a project - position: 15
1.b.  "project gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  it may only be - position: 2
things that you can do with most project gutenberg-tm electronic works - position: 8
paragraph 1.c below.  there are a lot of things you can do with project - position: 14
and help preserve free future access to project gutenberg-tm electronic - position: 8
1.c.  the project gutenberg literary archive foundation ("the foundation" - position: 3
or pglaf), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of project - position: 11
works based on the work as long as all references to project gutenberg - position: 12
are removed.  of course, we hope that you will support the project - position: 12
freely sharing project gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of - position: 3
this agreement for keeping the project gutenberg-tm name associated with - position: 6
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full project - position: 12
creating derivative works based on this work or any other project - position: 11
1.e.  unless you have removed all references to project gutenberg: - position: 9
access to, the full project gutenberg-tm license must appear prominently - position: 5
whenever any copy of a project gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the - position: 6
phrase "project gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "project - position: 2
phrase "project gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "project - position: 10
re-use it under the terms of the project gutenberg license included - position: 8
1.e.2.  if an individual project gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived - position: 5
with the phrase "project gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the - position: 4
project gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.e.8 or - position: 1
1.e.3.  if an individual project gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted - position: 5
to the project gutenberg-tm license for all works posted with the - position: 3
1.e.4.  do not unlink or detach or remove the full project gutenberg-tm - position: 11
work or any other work associated with project gutenberg-tm. - position: 8
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the project - position: 12
distribute copies of a project gutenberg-tm work in a format other than - position: 5
posted on the official project gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net), - position: 5
form.  any alternate format must include the full project gutenberg-tm - position: 9
performing, copying or distributing any project gutenberg-tm works - position: 6
access to or distributing project gutenberg-tm electronic works provided - position: 5
the use of project gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method - position: 4
owed to the owner of the project gutenberg-tm trademark, but he - position: 7
project gutenberg literary archive foundation.  royalty payments - position: 1
sent to the project gutenberg literary archive foundation at the - position: 4
the project gutenberg literary archive foundation." - position: 2
does not agree to the terms of the full project gutenberg-tm - position: 10
project gutenberg-tm works. - position: 1
distribution of project gutenberg-tm works. - position: 3
1.e.9.  if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a project gutenberg-tm - position: 12
both the project gutenberg literary archive foundation and michael - position: 3
hart, the owner of the project gutenberg-tm trademark.  contact the - position: 6
1.f.1.  project gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable - position: 2
public domain works in creating the project gutenberg-tm - position: 7
collection.  despite these efforts, project gutenberg-tm electronic - position: 5
of replacement or refund" described in paragraph 1.f.3, the project - position: 10
gutenberg literary archive foundation, the owner of the project - position: 9
gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a project - position: 9
providing copies of project gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance - position: 4
promotion and distribution of project gutenberg-tm electronic works, - position: 5
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any project gutenberg-tm - position: 11
project gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any defect you cause. - position: 1
section  2.  information about the mission of project gutenberg-tm - position: 8
project gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of - position: 1
assistance they need, is critical to reaching project gutenberg-tm's - position: 8
goals and ensuring that the project gutenberg-tm collection will - position: 6
remain freely available for generations to come.  in 2001, the project - position: 11
and permanent future for project gutenberg-tm and future generations. - position: 5
to learn more about the project gutenberg literary archive foundation - position: 6
section 3.  information about the project gutenberg literary archive - position: 6
the project gutenberg literary archive foundation is a non profit - position: 2
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  contributions to the project gutenberg - position: 5
section 4.  information about donations to the project gutenberg - position: 8
project gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide - position: 1
please check the project gutenberg web pages for current donation - position: 4
section 5.  general information about project gutenberg-tm electronic - position: 6
professor michael s. hart is the originator of the project gutenberg-tm - position: 10
with anyone.  for thirty years, he produced and distributed project - position: 10
project gutenberg-tm ebooks are often created from several printed - position: 1
this web site includes information about project gutenberg-tm, - position: 7
including how to make donations to the project gutenberg literary - position: 8

followed:
his body eventually followed slowly in the direction of the head. - position: 4
again.  "no", said gregor.  in the room on his right there followed - position: 12
for that". he crossed himself, and the three women followed his - position: 10
with a pained smile, and grete followed her parents into the bedroom - position: 7
word and left the premises.  mr. samsa and the two women followed - position: 12

bucketfuls:
thoroughly clean his room, and needed to use several bucketfuls of - position: 10

serve:
always ready to serve and expecting to hear the voice of his - position: 4

six:
six years i suppose - that's definitely what i'll do.  that's when - position: 1
drawers.  "god in heaven!" he thought.  it was half past six and the - position: 11
sleep if he was to be up at six to get to work.  but since he had - position: 9

importune:
importune him with little reproaches and warnings he would keep - position: 1

easier:
for all that she had to do for him it would have been easier for him - position: 14
between all the easier". - position: 4
make it easier for her to breathe), she ran to his father, her - position: 3

exists:
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  it exists - position: 9

fists:
her breast.  his father looked hostile, and clenched his fists as if - position: 10
thumped on the table with her small fists; and gregor hissed in - position: 8

that'll:
"that'll be someone from work", he said to himself, and froze very - position: 1

name:
this agreement for keeping the project gutenberg-tm name associated with - position: 8

deal:
required a great deal of effort and he was using his head to help - position: 4

situation:
situation had been confident and wise, and that made him feel - position: 1
sister, so that i'm trapped in a difficult situation, but i will - position: 9
becoming fully used to the situation - that gregor would sometimes - position: 6
situation seem even more shocking than it was so that she could do - position: 1

damaged:
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a - position: 6

touchy:
at the same time she became touchy in a way that was quite new for - position: 7

goes:
never goes out in the evenings; he's been in town for a week now but - position: 2

chest:
and he looked over at the alarm clock, ticking on the chest of - position: 12
saying, he made his way over to the chest of drawers - this was - position: 9
times he tried to climb up on the smooth chest of drawers he just - position: 10
and wept so that his powerful chest shook. - position: 7
removing the furniture that got in his way, especially the chest of - position: 11
in by the hand.  the old chest of drawers was too heavy for a pair - position: 7
be better to leave the chest where it was, for one thing it was too - position: 6
removing not only the chest of drawers and the desk, as she had - position: 5
helped gregor's sister to get the chest of drawers out with what - position: 7
strength she had.  the chest of drawers was something that gregor - position: 5
hardly had the two women pushed the chest of drawers, groaning, out - position: 8
chest, pushing and pulling at it from side to side by herself - position: 1
already taken out the chest containing his fretsaw and other tools; - position: 5
subdued voice, and openly pressed her face into his chest: "mother's - position: 10

cleaning:
her and which everyone in the family understood - cleaning up - position: 9
to the right of his mother, accused her of not leaving the cleaning - position: 13

clearly:
eyes to the window and look out as clearly as he could, but - position: 9
hospital - could be seen quite clearly with the austere and regular - position: 6
one of the doors and the other had clearly been unlocked some time - position: 9
after a while, clearly having gone over to the door, and only then - position: 4
clearly worn into the floor, the desk where he had done his homework - position: 1
with her mouth open, clearly intending not to close her mouth until - position: 5
while it was still in its dish, clearly wishing to establish whether - position: 8
good news to report, but would only do it if she was clearly asked - position: 13
and, clearly peeved, called out "cheerio then, everyone", turned - position: 2
returns.  royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and - position: 6

occasionally:
occasionally looked down at gregor as he lay there immobile. - position: 1

landing:
see onto the landing and the stairs where they began their way down - position: 4
opening; tried to reach the chief clerk on the landing who, - position: 10
landing on the floor with a crash.  but now, of course, he had far - position: 1
them out onto the landing; but they had had no reason to mistrust - position: 5
the men's intentions and as they leaned over the landing they saw how - position: 10
away from the landing and went, as if relieved, back into the flat. - position: 4

dragged:
only one of them had been - and dragged along lifelessly. - position: 8
dragged the things he did want to eat a little way away from them - position: 1

establish:
while it was still in its dish, clearly wishing to establish whether - position: 11

gruff:
too; you had to concede that it was possible.  but as if in gruff - position: 14

palely:
electric street lamps shone palely here and there onto the ceiling - position: 5

realised:
sound.  they had realised, though, that there was something wrong - position: 4
gregor realised that it was out of the question to let the chief - position: 2
any moment.  eventually, though, gregor realised that he had no - position: 6
it was only when he had reached the door that he realised what it - position: 12
mentioned as a lovely dream that could never be realised.  their - position: 10
gregor's wish to see his mother was soon realised.  out of - position: 9
wallpaper, and before she even realised it was gregor that she saw - position: 6
floor.  he stopped and looked round.  they seemed to have realised - position: 11
she soon realised what had really happened, opened her eyes wide, - position: 3

holiday:
not been working - the first holiday in a life that had been full of - position: 6
walk together on a sunday or public holiday wrapped up tightly in - position: 8

3:
foundation as set forth in section 3 below. - position: 7
and how your efforts and donations can help, see sections 3 and 4 - position: 11
section 3.  information about the project gutenberg literary archive - position: 2

scraping:
little calls to each other, the scraping of the furniture on the - position: 7

2:
section  2.  information about the mission of project gutenberg-tm - position: 2

flapped:
an enormous, thick-boned charwoman with white hair that flapped - position: 9

clean:
thoroughly clean his room, and needed to use several bucketfuls of - position: 2
screamed at her that she was never to clean gregor's room again; - position: 9
only they had told this charwoman to clean up his room every day - position: 8

knows:
boss; i'd get kicked out on the spot.  but who knows, maybe that - position: 11

english:
language: english - position: 2

imagining:
curious as to what she would bring in its place, imagining the - position: 11

curtains:
the stairway, the curtains flew up, the newspapers on the table - position: 4

give:
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  you may copy it, give it away or - position: 9
he had heard properly or not.  gregor had wanted to give a full - position: 11
"what is wrong? you barricade yourself in your room, give us no more - position: 10
now and then he used the tip of his stick to give directions from a - position: 12
not give him much room to crawl about, it was hard to just lie - position: 2
give more attention to gregor than was absolutely necessary? the - position: 1
gregor found it easy to give up having the door open, he had, after - position: 6
- here he looked briefly but decisively at the floor - "i give - position: 11
joined in with the words: "and we also give immediate notice."  with - position: 9
forehead.  her words seemed to give gregor's father some more - position: 6
complete it.  "now then", said  mr. samsa, "let's give thanks to god - position: 9
let's forget about all that old stuff, shall we.  come and give me a - position: 12
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  you may copy it, give it away or - position: 9
incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of such - position: 6
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to - position: 8

shiny:
this coat, with its gold buttons always kept polished and shiny, - position: 11

heaving:
of feeble women to be heaving about, but gregor listened as they - position: 6

personally:
wants to speak to you personally.  so please open up this door.  i'm - position: 6

laying:
that really his father? the same tired man as used to be laying - position: 13
special.  she thought he was laying there so still on purpose, - position: 6

bound:
main concern was for the loud noise he was bound to make, and which - position: 10
gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the - position: 11
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  there are a few - position: 4

hallway:
up and went on tip-toe over to the door of the hallway where they - position: 12
hallway; his two friends had stopped rubbing their hands some time - position: 1
mr. samsa might go into the hallway in front of them and break the - position: 7

windowpanes:
windowpanes, perhaps indicating that spring was coming, she began to - position: 1

prevent:
he was not able to prevent the sheet at its front from moving a - position: 6
located in the united states, we do not claim a right to prevent you from - position: 13

gazing:
family lead", said gregor to himself, and, gazing into the darkness, - position: 8

night:
from his travelling, of locking all doors at night even when he was - position: 9
last night, my parents know about it, perhaps better than me, i had - position: 2
a small symptom of it last night already.  they must have noticed - position: 7
was; but the door was opened no more that night and gregor waited in - position: 10
it was not until late at night that the gaslight in the living room - position: 7
he spent the whole night there.  some of the time he passed in a - position: 5
decisions, as early the next morning, almost before the night had - position: 10
he would often lie there the whole night through, not sleeping a - position: 8
quietly through the night, his food soon stopped giving him any - position: 4
gregor hardly slept at all, either night or day.  sometimes he would - position: 7

20%:
- you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from - position: 7

north:
809 north 1500 west, salt lake city, ut 84116, (801) 596-1887, email - position: 2

enviable:
seventeen, her life up till then had been very enviable, consisting - position: 10

ground:
ground one at a time.  the washing up from breakfast lay on the - position: 1
feel alright with his body; the little legs had the solid ground - position: 12
ground.  then his father gave him a hefty shove from behind which - position: 1
round; a bottle fell to the ground and broke; a splinter cut - position: 7
skirts unfastened and sliding one after another to the ground, - position: 10
head close to the ground so that he could meet her eyes if the - position: 5
looking at the ground as if the contents of his head were - position: 4

govern:
1.d.  the copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern - position: 13

celebrations:
of wearing them at functions and celebrations.  but the loudest - position: 7

shivering:
and noise making; he would stay under the couch shivering the whole - position: 10

knew:
the visitor's first words of greeting and he knew who it was - the - position: 9
there on the carpet, and no-one who knew the condition he was in - position: 8
thought i knew you as a calm and sensible person, and now you - position: 3
gregor's feelings, as she knew that he would not eat in front of - position: 5
how much she knew of what had happened but she left within a quarter - position: 4
with that - he knew full well, right from the first day of his new - position: 4
unlike anything experienced by anyone else they knew or were related - position: 8
hurry she still did, so that everyone in the flat knew when she'd - position: 11

glowering:
"gregor!" shouted his sister, glowering at him and shaking her fist. - position: 5

tips:
himself upright against it using the adhesive on the tips of his - position: 10

shame:
of what he was doing other than a slight feeling of shame, he - position: 12
shame and regret. - position: 1

somebody:
somebody called - it was his mother - "it's quarter to seven. - position: 1
somebody will have come round from work to ask what's happened to me - position: 1
if somebody came to help him.  two strong people - he had his father - position: 2
must have been somebody in the flat.  "what a quiet life it is the - position: 4

piled:
with a dish piled high with potatoes.  the food was steaming, and - position: 4

members:
made the other members of the family aware that gregor, against - position: 4
about the same subject as there were always at least two members of - position: 12

frequent:
possible and with frequent anxious glances at his father, to turn - position: 4
frequent, she would often say, sadly, "now everything's just been - position: 1

worried:
were worried, that would excuse their behaviour. - position: 2
but grete's words had made her mother quite worried, she stepped to - position: 9

proceed:
consider whether to proceed with some kind of action for damages - position: 4

bulging:
watched with bulging eyes as his sister unselfconsciously took a - position: 3

appears:
phrase "project gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "project - position: 4

format:
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full project - position: 7
distribute copies of a project gutenberg-tm work in a format other than - position: 10
"plain vanilla ascii" or other format used in the official version - position: 6
form.  any alternate format must include the full project gutenberg-tm - position: 4

suppress:
despite all the difficulty he was in, he could not suppress a smile - position: 11

permission:
conversation - with everyone's permission, in a way, and thus quite - position: 4
suddenly overcome with humility and wanted permission again from - position: 7
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  special rules, - position: 1
charge for the ebooks, unless you receive specific permission.  if you - position: 9
included with the permission of the copyright holder.  information on - position: 4
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied - position: 3
through 1.e.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the - position: 5
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution - position: 3
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work. - position: 1
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from - position: 8

within:
how much she knew of what had happened but she left within a quarter - position: 12
must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you - position: 4
you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he - position: 7
electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days - position: 9
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can - position: 6

hand:
nothing serious.  but on the other hand, i must say that if we - position: 7
now he also saw him - he was the nearest to the door - his hand - position: 14
in his hand and a carefree smile on his face as he called forth - position: 3
a panic.  in the hall, he stretched his right hand far out towards - position: 10
gregor's father seized the chief clerk's stick in his right hand - position: 11
lethal blow to his back or head from the stick in his father's hand - position: 14
fresh foods, on the other hand, he didn't like at all, and even - position: 6
in by the hand.  the old chest of drawers was too heavy for a pair - position: 4
gregor, on the other hand, ought not to be neglected.  now, though, - position: 5
the chair in her hand had been slammed down into gregor's back. - position: 5
and the hand that held it.  the woman most likely meant to fetch the - position: 3
bowed once with his cap in his hand and did his round of the table. - position: 8
hand pushed in between two buttons on his uniform coat; his mother, - position: 1
quickly moving toward.  under his sister's experienced hand, the - position: 8
now", he said, raising his hand and glancing at gregor's mother and - position: 6
"father, mother", said his sister, hitting the table with her hand - position: 11
cough dully, her hand held out in front of her and a deranged - position: 4
gregor's sister rushed to his mother and put her hand on her - position: 10
the face of her mother, and she wiped them away with mechanical hand - position: 13
question; his sister shook her hand vigorously through her tears as - position: 6
him.  she happened to be holding the long broom in her hand, so she - position: 12
everything in detail but, with outstretched hand, he made it quite - position: 7

denuded:
denuded of everything else that had been on it - of the lady dressed - position: 1

spend:
couldn't get out of bed if he didn't spend at least a couple of - position: 9
he should.  and you're also well aware that we travellers spend - position: 11
would often spend the whole evening looking at all the stains on - position: 3

collar:
the employees at the banking institute; above the high, stiff collar - position: 11
had kept free without any necklace or collar. - position: 8

protect:
hands in front of gregor's sister as if to protect her. - position: 10
protect the project gutenberg-tm concept and trademark.  project - position: 1
to protect the project gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free - position: 2

misfortune:
their business misfortune had reduced the family to a state of total - position: 3
despair, and the thought that they had been struck with a misfortune - position: 12
this misfortune hadn't got in the way, and refuse to let anyone - position: 2

remained:
they danced around.  for a moment everything remained quiet. - position: 8
remained from his father's business, at least he had never told him - position: 1
gregor only remained close to his sister now.  unlike him, she was - position: 3
very still, remained there a moment, and then went back out to - position: 3
only because her mother was there, she remained calm, bent her face - position: 8
impression of a chase as everything went so slowly.  gregor remained - position: 11
remained there as a visible reminder of his injury.  he had suffered - position: 1
responded to being spoken to in that way, but just remained where he - position: 11
room slightly open, and it remained open when the gentlemen who - position: 6
sister.  he remained in this state of empty and peaceful rumination - position: 3
over to the window where they remained with their arms around each - position: 7

particular:
just prejudice but they have no particular reason to think better of - position: 7
no longer had any particular reason to be shocked at his appearance, - position: 5
this particular work is one of the few copyrighted individual works - position: 2
the copyright owner for this particular work and the terms of use - position: 6
particular state visit http://pglaf.org - position: 1
keep ebooks in compliance with any particular paper edition. - position: 7

whispered:
his breakfast, but his sister whispered: "gregor, open the door, i - position: 6
from the room on his right, gregor's sister whispered to him to let - position: 9

ask:
somebody will have come round from work to ask what's happened to me - position: 9
would sometimes ask his father whether he would like a beer, hoping - position: 3
able to do by herself; she did not dare to ask for help from her - position: 11

surprise:
some surprise.  she immediately picked it up - using a rag, - position: 2
would have been no surprise for gregor as it would have been - position: 5
that he would surprise even himself by letting go of the ceiling and - position: 4
by surprise, no-one was chasing him but he began to rush to and fro - position: 2
at all.  this was no surprise to him, it seemed rather that being - position: 6

doctor:
certainly come round with the doctor from the medical insurance - position: 6
doctor's recommendation not to make any claim as the doctor believed - position: 10
across gregor's room.  "you'll have to go for the doctor straight - position: 10
away.  gregor is ill.  quick, get the doctor.  did you hear the way - position: 8
from the doctor and the locksmith he expected great and surprising - position: 3
doctor and the locksmith that first morning to get them out of the - position: 1

mingled:
grey earth mingled inseparably.  his observant sister only needed to - position: 3

current:
enough to remind even his father that gregor, despite his current - position: 11
smaller and cheaper than the current one which had been chosen by - position: 6
please check the project gutenberg web pages for current donation - position: 9

flight:
flight of the chief clerk seemed, unfortunately, to put gregor's - position: 1

dish:
something to eat.  by the door there was a dish filled with - position: 10
from the dish and crawled back into the centre of the room. - position: 3
good to eat.  however, his sister noticed the full dish immediately - position: 10
the dish, which had probably been permanently set aside for gregor's - position: 2
the doorway with a dish of meat and soon behind her came his sister - position: 5
with a dish piled high with potatoes.  the food was steaming, and - position: 3
while it was still in its dish, clearly wishing to establish whether - position: 7

feelings:
gregor's feelings, as she knew that he would not eat in front of - position: 2

upwards:
cigarettes upwards from their mouth and noses.  yet gregor's sister - position: 2

greatest:
greatest consideration so that his family could bear the - position: 1
lift himself up carefully as if he were carrying the greatest load - position: 11
and held particularly good promise for the future.  the greatest - position: 10

half-rotten:
on an old newspaper.  there were old, half-rotten vegetables; bones - position: 8

fee:
if you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a project - position: 5
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.e.8. - position: 7
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a - position: 7
1.e.7.  do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying, - position: 6
1.e.8.  you may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing - position: 7
- you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from - position: 5
you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  the fee is - position: 10
1.e.9.  if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a project gutenberg-tm - position: 8

tower:
until he heard the clock tower strike three in the morning.  he - position: 6

called:
somebody called - it was his mother - "it's quarter to seven. - position: 2
"gregor, gregor", he called, "what's wrong?"  and after a short - position: 4
while he called again with a warning deepness in his voice: "gregor! - position: 3
then the chief clerk called "good morning,  mr. samsa". "he isn't - position: 5
the chief clerk now raised his voice, "mr. samsa", he called to him, - position: 11
"but sir", called gregor, beside himself and forgetting all else in - position: 3
called his mother, who was already in tears, "he could be seriously - position: 1
"mother?" his sister called from the other side.  they communicated - position: 4
screams.  "anna! anna!" his father called into the kitchen through - position: 6
in his hand and a carefree smile on his face as he called forth - position: 13
the kitchen, as gregor's father called out: "is the playing perhaps - position: 6
called back gregor's father as if he had been the violin player - position: 1
and, clearly peeved, called out "cheerio then, everyone", turned - position: 4
there watching for a while.  then he called out: "come here, then. - position: 8

onto:
himself onto his right, he always rolled back to where he was.  he - position: 2
probably nothing would happen to it falling onto the carpet.  his - position: 8
careful as he swang over onto the floor, where, hopefully, the - position: 6
there he let go of it and threw himself onto the door, holding - position: 10
from his mouth, flowed over the key and dripped onto the floor. - position: 10
upright with his mouth, and hung onto the key or pushed it down - position: 7
towards gregor and sank down onto the floor into her skirts that - position: 6
spread themselves out around her as her head disappeared down onto - position: 11
see onto the landing and the stairs where they began their way down - position: 2
something to hold onto, landed on his numerous little legs.  hardly - position: 4
coffee was pouring down onto the carpet. - position: 5
fluttered and some of them were blown onto the floor.  nothing would - position: 8
electric street lamps shone palely here and there onto the ceiling - position: 9
onto the cool, leather sofa next to it, as he became quite hot with - position: 1
to all the effort of pushing a chair to the window, climbing up onto - position: 14
in copious fur.  he hurried up onto the picture and pressed himself - position: 7
screamed: "oh god, oh god!"  arms outstretched, she fell onto the - position: 10
bank, and threw it in an arc right across the room onto the sofa, - position: 12
might see it as especially provoking if he fled onto the wall or - position: 10
shy to move forward a little onto the immaculate floor of the living - position: 7
them out onto the landing; but they had had no reason to mistrust - position: 3

sky:
looking out the window at a barren waste where the grey sky and the - position: 12

spent:
he spent the whole night there.  some of the time he passed in a - position: 2
his hunger, and some of the time was spent in worries and vague - position: 9
just to move about the home, every other day would be spent - position: 12
this sight, he spent four hours carrying the bedsheet over to the - position: 4

weakly:
completely, and his last breath flowed weakly from his nostrils. - position: 7

entertaining:
noticed gregor's new way of entertaining himself - he had, after - position: 6
entertaining violin playing but had been disappointed, that they had - position: 1
seemed to think gregor was more entertaining than the violin playing - position: 7

section:
section 1.  general terms of use and redistributing project gutenberg-tm - position: 1
address specified in section 4, "information about donations to - position: 4
foundation as set forth in section 3 below. - position: 6
section  2.  information about the mission of project gutenberg-tm - position: 1
section 3.  information about the project gutenberg literary archive - position: 1
section 4.  information about donations to the project gutenberg - position: 1
section 5.  general information about project gutenberg-tm electronic - position: 1

bedding:
sections.  the bedding was hardly able to cover it and seemed ready - position: 3

flowers:
one side, saw the enormous brown patch against the flowers of the - position: 10

formats:
this and all associated files of various formats will be found in: - position: 8
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers - position: 4

workshy:
that no-one was ever ill but that many were workshy.  and what's - position: 10

immobile:
couch as if she had given up everything and stayed there immobile. - position: 12
he lay there for a while, numb and immobile, all around him it was - position: 9
and he lay flat on the couch, bitter and immobile.  but his mother - position: 10
death, and he would remain immobile for hours afterwards. - position: 6
occasionally looked down at gregor as he lay there immobile. - position: 10

succeeded:
out of the bed all at the same time.  if he succeeded in falling out - position: 12

cook:
cook had left but she certainly would not have helped in this, she - position: 1

interest:
a lot, but it had not been touched in the meantime and some interest - position: 14
to live off the interest; it was enough to maintain them for, - position: 5
more that the samsa family lost interest in them; when a butcher's - position: 7

thank-you:
himself with saying: "yes, mother, yes, thank-you, i'm getting up - position: 7

may:
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  you may copy it, give it away or - position: 6
first posted: may 13, 2002 - position: 3
last updated: may 20, 2012 - position: 3
gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you - position: 7
rules is very easy.  you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose - position: 6
research.  they may be modified and printed and given away--you may do - position: 3
research.  they may be modified and printed and given away--you may do - position: 11
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or - position: 6
1.b.  "project gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  it may only be - position: 9
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  you may copy it, give it away or - position: 6
1.e.6.  you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary, - position: 3
1.e.8.  you may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing - position: 3
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain - position: 8
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain - position: 11
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a - position: 4
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to - position: 5
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further - position: 5

sticking:
when gregor was already sticking half way out of the bed - the new - position: 5

endearments:
sleeve, whisper endearments into his ear, gregor's sister would - position: 3

permitted:
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by - position: 9
permitted by u.s. federal laws and your state's laws. - position: 1

exempt:
state of mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the internal - position: 7
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt - position: 10

repeatedly:
himself do it, repeatedly raising it and striking it against the - position: 4

comprehension:
which was totally beyond gregor's comprehension, his sister even - position: 6

must:
must have tried it a hundred times, shut his eyes so that he - position: 1
should have been; it certainly must have rung.  yes, but was it - position: 6
nothing serious.  but on the other hand, i must say that if we - position: 9
parents and of your employer, and really must request a clear and - position: 8
a small symptom of it last night already.  they must have noticed - position: 10
was no sound of the door banging shut again; they must have left it - position: 11
he must have been causing some kind of damage as a brown fluid came - position: 2
wanted to be sure of reaching him; the chief clerk must have - position: 11
must have been somebody in the flat.  "what a quiet life it is the - position: 1
time being he must remain calm, he must show patience and the - position: 4
time being he must remain calm, he must show patience and the - position: 8
eat.  what's more, his injuries must already have completely healed - position: 6
life led by the family during these two months, must have made him - position: 10
enthusiastic about things and feel they must get their way whenever - position: 7
must have made everything clear to him.  she answered him with - position: 1
stood pressed against each other.  someone must have heard them in - position: 7
stand to look at all the notes being played, and they must have - position: 12
possible, he felt that he must go away even more strongly than his - position: 6
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy - position: 7
access to, the full project gutenberg-tm license must appear prominently - position: 8
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.e.1 - position: 3
must comply with both paragraphs 1.e.1 through 1.e.7 and any additional - position: 1
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a - position: 2
form.  any alternate format must include the full project gutenberg-tm - position: 5
must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you - position: 1
license.  you must require such a user to return or - position: 3
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from - position: 6
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with - position: 9

striking:
himself do it, repeatedly raising it and striking it against the - position: 8

status:
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the united - position: 3
state of mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the internal - position: 8
status with the irs. - position: 1
send donations or determine the status of compliance for any - position: 6

explanation:
this explanation and shuffled away.  but this short conversation - position: 2
immediate explanation.  i am astonished, quite astonished.  i - position: 2
that that could not be the right explanation.  but now that i see - position: 8
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  if you - position: 2
your written explanation.  the person or entity that provided you with - position: 3

excuse:
only a minor discourtesy, and a suitable excuse could easily be - position: 8
were worried, that would excuse their behaviour. - position: 5

slowly:
slight itch up on his belly; pushed himself slowly up on his back - position: 9
slowly resolve themselves today.  he did not have the slightest - position: 1
it went so slowly; and finally, almost in a frenzy, when he - position: 4
his body eventually followed slowly in the direction of the head. - position: 5
is, but he isn't."  "i'll be there in a moment", said gregor slowly - position: 13
gregor slowly pushed his way over to the door with the chair.  once - position: 2
open before he could be seen.  he had first to slowly turn himself - position: 11
pressed against his open mouth and slowly retreating as if driven by - position: 7
backwards and was only able to go very slowly.  if gregor had only - position: 9
himself round.  it went very slowly, but perhaps his father was able - position: 6
eating and lay lethargic in the same place, his sister slowly turned - position: 11
or if he left most of it, which slowly became more and more - position: 9
would the interrupted conversation slowly be taken up again. - position: 5
way forward a little more slowly than them, who were already walking - position: 6
slowly for his sake; who would place his stick down carefully and, - position: 1
impression of a chase as everything went so slowly.  gregor remained - position: 9
as a result of this it slowly became even shabbier despite the - position: 7
slowly shaking his head for a quarter of an hour with his eyes - position: 1
gregor as he slowly moved forward.  the violin went silent, the - position: 4
back towards their room only very slowly.  meanwhile gregor's sister - position: 7
that his entire body was aching, but the pain seemed to be slowly - position: 13
watched as it slowly began to get light everywhere outside the - position: 4

trademark/copyright:
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  if you do not agree to abide by all - position: 1

throwing:
falling, now throwing down large, individual droplets which hit the - position: 3

treated:
sad and revolting form, was a family member who could not be treated - position: 13

selfish:
said nothing she would add, so that he would not feel selfish, that - position: 12

volunteer:
gutenberg-tm ebooks with only a loose network of volunteer support. - position: 9

transformation:
one day, about a month after gregor's transformation when his sister - position: 8
transformation.  she ran into the other room to fetch some kind of - position: 1

insurance:
certainly come round with the doctor from the medical insurance - position: 10

copyright:
**     please follow the copyright guidelines in this file.     ** - position: 5
copyright (c) 2002 david wyllie. - position: 1
one owns a united states copyright in these works, so the foundation - position: 6
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  special rules, - position: 5
or pglaf), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of project - position: 6
included with the permission of the copyright holder.  information on - position: 7
the copyright owner for this particular work and the terms of use - position: 2
imposed by the copyright holder on this work are set forth at the - position: 4
1.d.  the copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern - position: 3
what you can do with this work.  copyright laws in most countries are in - position: 8
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the united - position: 2
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied - position: 6
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution - position: 6
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  additional terms will be linked - position: 5
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work. - position: 4
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread - position: 5
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual - position: 6
unless a copyright notice is included.  thus, we do not necessarily - position: 3

enter:
enter the room but thought better of it.  gregor went and waited - position: 1
was alright; and only then did she let her mother enter.  gregor had - position: 11
dare enter a room dominated by gregor crawling about the bare walls - position: 2

lamps:
electric street lamps shone palely here and there onto the ceiling - position: 3

receive:
to eat, and receive no more answer than "no thanks, i've had enough" - position: 4
trips, who would receive him sitting in the armchair in his - position: 4
charge for the ebooks, unless you receive specific permission.  if you - position: 7
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a - position: 1
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  if the second copy - position: 1

line:
line of windows piercing its facade; the rain was still - position: 1
going backwards in a straight line; so he began, as quickly as - position: 6
straight line towards the man.  at first, he stood there still, - position: 2

research:
research.  they may be modified and printed and given away--you may do - position: 1
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread - position: 6

literary:
1.c.  the project gutenberg literary archive foundation ("the foundation" - position: 5
project gutenberg literary archive foundation.  royalty payments - position: 3
sent to the project gutenberg literary archive foundation at the - position: 6
the project gutenberg literary archive foundation." - position: 4
both the project gutenberg literary archive foundation and michael - position: 5
gutenberg literary archive foundation, the owner of the project - position: 2
gutenberg literary archive foundation was created to provide a secure - position: 2
to learn more about the project gutenberg literary archive foundation - position: 8
section 3.  information about the project gutenberg literary archive - position: 8
the project gutenberg literary archive foundation is a non profit - position: 4
literary archive foundation are tax deductible to the full extent - position: 1
literary archive foundation - position: 1
including how to make donations to the project gutenberg literary - position: 10

uniform:
respect for his uniform and bearing.  the door to the entrance hall - position: 4
dressed in a smart blue uniform with gold buttons, the sort worn by - position: 6
long uniform coat, and, with look of determination, walked towards - position: 2
uniform off even at home; while his nightgown hung unused on its peg - position: 1
superior even here.  the uniform had not been new to start with, but - position: 5
hand pushed in between two buttons on his uniform coat; his mother, - position: 9
definite ideas.  he sat upright, played with his uniform cap between - position: 9
uniform with his wife on one arm and his daughter on the other.  all - position: 1
states.  compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a - position: 6

wiped:
the face of her mother, and she wiped them away with mechanical hand - position: 8

identification:
revenue service.  the foundation's ein or federal tax identification - position: 9

allowed:
been allowed to turn round he would have been back in his room - position: 2
have allowed gregor the time to get himself upright as preparation - position: 2
had even asked to be allowed to keep the kitchen locked at all times - position: 6
they had not allowed themselves a long rest and came back quite - position: 4
politeness that they allowed their peace to be disturbed.  it was - position: 4

dressed:
disturbed, to get dressed, and most of all to have his breakfast. - position: 4
only just got up and had not even begun to get dressed.  and why was - position: 12
went.  how had his sister managed to get dressed so quickly? there - position: 9
have kept calm, "i'll get dressed straight away now, pack up my - position: 6
ended, his sister, nearly fully dressed, opened the door from the - position: 6
denuded of everything else that had been on it - of the lady dressed - position: 13
dressed in a smart blue uniform with gold buttons, the sort worn by - position: 1
gregor's father would slumber where he was, fully dressed, as if - position: 9
gentlemen had moved in; she was fully dressed as if she had never - position: 8

make:
white spots which he didn't know what to make of; and when he tried - position: 9
i'll make the big change.  first of all though, i've got to get up, - position: 2
doctor's recommendation not to make any claim as the doctor believed - position: 5
main concern was for the loud noise he was bound to make, and which - position: 12
time was now ten past seven and he would have to make a final - position: 12
to let one of the trainees make enquiries - assuming enquiries were - position: 7
don't make my parents suffer! there's no basis for any of the - position: 2
parents, "surely he's not trying to make fools of us". "oh, god!" - position: 7
make his voice as clear as possible, he coughed a little, but taking - position: 1
work my way out of it again.  please don't make things any harder - position: 10
make mistakes about his employees and judge them more harshly than - position: 1
left side make it difficult to eat the food - he was only able to - position: 3
that gregor would know he could make things as comfortable for - position: 7
and got it into her head to make it as easy as possible for him by - position: 8
used to this furniture in his room for a long time and it would make - position: 15
they can.  perhaps this was what tempted grete to make gregor's - position: 10
make it easier for her to breathe), she ran to his father, her - position: 1
all, often failed to make use of it when it was open and, without - position: 5
nourishment he had been yearning for.  he was determined to make his - position: 11
success with that she tried to make a nuisance of herself and poked - position: 7
to make an effort to get over the shock caused by the cleaner before - position: 2
he do anything to make them look away. - position: 5
they decided the best way to make use of that day was for relaxation - position: 7
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by - position: 3
international donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make - position: 9
including how to make donations to the project gutenberg literary - position: 4

saying:
himself with saying: "yes, mother, yes, thank-you, i'm getting up - position: 3
saying, he made his way over to the chest of drawers - this was - position: 1
quiet so that he could listen to what the chief clerk was saying. - position: 13
they could grasp what she was saying.  but then, each from his own - position: 7

sure:
sure he'll be good enough to forgive the untidiness of your room." - position: 1
stubborn; and i'm sure he isn't well, he said this morning that he - position: 4
different from the way that a human coughs and he was no longer sure - position: 14
wanted to be sure of reaching him; the chief clerk must have - position: 4
even more, and for another thing it wasn't even sure that taking the - position: 10
for him to move.  he was sure that everyone would turn on him any - position: 7

b:
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any - position: 2
dr. gregory b. newby - position: 3

loudest:
of wearing them at functions and celebrations.  but the loudest - position: 10

events:
injured in the events of that morning - it was nearly a miracle that - position: 4

copied:
copied or distributed: - position: 1
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied - position: 12

worked:
eat if his whole body worked together as a snuffling whole - but the - position: 6
they worked and he could only hear their feet as they stepped - position: 2

apart:
fact, apart from excessive sleepiness after sleeping for so long, - position: 2
though, even apart from the fact that all the doors were locked? - position: 3
thought at first, but all the furniture apart from the all-important - position: 8

disappear:
disappear. - position: 1
getting weaker and weaker and would finally disappear altogether. - position: 8

hoped:
hoped for, that several items of jewellery belonging to the family - position: 1

learned:
bedpost, and learned from the burning pain he felt that the lower - position: 3
gregor learned, to his pleasure, that despite all their misfortunes - position: 2
had taken a sales job, learned shorthand and french in the evenings - position: 6
the large amount of sewing work she did.  gregor even learned, - position: 11
full beards, as gregor learned peering through the crack in the door - position: 5

fond:
very fond of music and a gifted and expressive violinist, it was his - position: 2
fond of hanging from the ceiling; it was quite different from lying - position: 1
had been sold, even though both mother and sister had been very fond - position: 13

liability:
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal - position: 1
liability, breach of warranty or breach of contract except those - position: 1
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees, - position: 4

limitation:
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages. - position: 6
if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the - position: 5
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by - position: 8

provincial:
provincial hotel, a tender memory that appeared and disappeared - position: 1

coat:
of the coat his strong double-chin emerged; under the bushy - position: 3
long uniform coat, and, with look of determination, walked towards - position: 3
this coat, with its gold buttons always kept polished and shiny, - position: 2
hand pushed in between two buttons on his uniform coat; his mother, - position: 10

attempted:
attempted to drive them back into their room at the same time as - position: 1

unyielding:
from the wall.  well, she could certainly try it! he sat unyielding - position: 12

801:
809 north 1500 west, salt lake city, ut 84116, (801) 596-1887, email - position: 10

intercede:
whatsoever to intercede on your behalf.  and nor is your position - position: 3

considered:
probably considered friendly, such as "come on then, you old - position: 2

neighbour:
they had had a neighbour like gregor in the next room without - position: 5

got:
time", he thought, "it makes you stupid.  you've got to get enough - position: 9
hard of hearing.  well, there's still some hope; once i've got the - position: 11
i'll make the big change.  first of all though, i've got to get up, - position: 11
but when he had at last got his head out of the bed and into the - position: 7
i'll definitely have to have got properly out of bed.  and by then - position: 6
only just got up and had not even begun to get dressed.  and why was - position: 3
she crying? was it because he had not got up, and had not let the - position: 9
be got back into his room as quickly as possible.  nor would he ever - position: 2
them.  they had even got used to it, both gregor and the family, - position: 5
pleasure at all, and so, to entertain himself, he got into the habit - position: 10
and got it into her head to make it as easy as possible for him by - position: 2
removing the furniture that got in his way, especially the chest of - position: 5
heavy for them to get the job finished before gregor's father got - position: 12
fainted, but she's better now.  gregor got out."  "just as i - position: 7
he got into the habit of closely watching it for one or two hours - position: 2
stopped him eating, but he had soon got used to the changes made - position: 8
there.  they had got into the habit of putting things into this room - position: 4
this misfortune hadn't got in the way, and refuse to let anyone - position: 4
"it's got to go", shouted his sister, "that's the only way, father. - position: 2
you've got to get rid of the idea that that's gregor.  we've only - position: 2
destroyed the peace they had only just gained.  they got up and went - position: 10

20:
last updated: may 20, 2012 - position: 4

feed:
feed themselves.  and here i am, dying!" - position: 1

distribution:
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work - position: 1
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution - position: 11
distribution of project gutenberg-tm works. - position: 1
promotion and distribution of project gutenberg-tm electronic works, - position: 3
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any project gutenberg-tm - position: 6
project gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of - position: 8

fingers:
fingers spread shouting: "help, for pity's sake, help!"  the way she - position: 1
when the violin on his mother's lap fell from her trembling fingers - position: 12

knock:
there was a cautious knock at the door near his head.  "gregor", - position: 5
on pushing himself forward the same way.  and he could not knock - position: 12
wanting to knock gregor back into his room.  then he looked - position: 3

harder:
his legs as they struggled against each other even harder than - position: 10
work my way out of it again.  please don't make things any harder - position: 13
turned his head his father merely stamped his foot all the harder. - position: 12
than ever, was to drive gregor forwards all the harder as if there - position: 10
and it was then harder than ever to persuade him to exchange the - position: 5

oh:
"oh, god", he thought, "what a strenuous career it is that i've - position: 1
parents, "surely he's not trying to make fools of us". "oh, god!" - position: 11
exclaim a loud "oh!", which sounded like the soughing of the wind. - position: 4
screamed: "oh god, oh god!"  arms outstretched, she fell onto the - position: 2
screamed: "oh god, oh god!"  arms outstretched, she fell onto the - position: 4
all, much more cosy and comfortable?"  "oh yes, we'd love to", - position: 7

wrapped:
walk together on a sunday or public holiday wrapped up tightly in - position: 9

meals:
was about what they should do now; but even between meals they spoke - position: 11
they sat up at the table where, formerly, gregor had taken his meals - position: 13

year:
it's not the time of year to do especially good business, we - position: 6
recognise that; but there simply is no time of year to do no - position: 10
almost the whole year away from the office, so that we can very - position: 4
secret plan to send her to the conservatory next year even though it - position: 10
father; the sixteen year old maid had carried on bravely since the - position: 4
his arms and who, on the couple of times a year when they went for a - position: 11

bedroom:
with anger, into the bedroom; his sister, quaking with tears, - position: 5
whistled to herself, but did not waste time to yank open the bedroom - position: 13
with a pained smile, and grete followed her parents into the bedroom - position: 12
then the door of the bedroom opened and  mr. samsa appeared in his - position: 6

deterioration:
this deterioration in his condition was fully (in his opinion) made - position: 2

accessible:
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest - position: 7

contracts:
of these things.  maybe you haven't read the latest contracts i sent - position: 10

movement:
room.  he was still occupied with this difficult movement, unable to - position: 9
movement, drew his foot from the living room, and rushed forward in - position: 1
movement; he carried threads, hairs, and remains of food about on - position: 1
movement as if she wanted to hold back the broom, but did not - position: 1

self-control:
hurried back under the couch.  but he needed great self-control to - position: 10

stiff:
see his brown belly, slightly domed and divided by arches into stiff - position: 12
the employees at the banking institute; above the high, stiff collar - position: 10
not turn it all the way round as he felt his neck becoming stiff, - position: 14

tearfully:
of an hour, tearfully thanking gregor's mother for her dismissal as - position: 4

incarcerated:
incarcerated in his room.  he had thought that nothing at all - position: 1

irregular:
train connections, bad and irregular food, contact with different - position: 5

lively:
all feel particularly fresh and lively.  and even if he did catch - position: 6
still, although his little legs only became all the more lively as - position: 11
they no longer held the lively conversations of earlier times, of - position: 6

businessman:
than the boss himself - it's very easy for a businessman like him to - position: 10

behaviour:
were worried, that would excuse their behaviour. - position: 7
again from outside.  but she seemed to regret her behaviour, as she - position: 10
father's behaviour that annoyed them or the dawning realisation that - position: 2

passed:
he spent the whole night there.  some of the time he passed in a - position: 12
boy, proud of posture with his tray on his head, passed them on his - position: 11

wage:
earn an enormous wage as well as having a soft time of it.  that's - position: 4

fretsaw:
is working with his fretsaw.  he's made a little frame, for - position: 5
already taken out the chest containing his fretsaw and other tools; - position: 8

god:
"oh, god", he thought, "what a strenuous career it is that i've - position: 2
drawers.  "god in heaven!" he thought.  it was half past six and the - position: 2
parents, "surely he's not trying to make fools of us". "oh, god!" - position: 12
screamed: "oh god, oh god!"  arms outstretched, she fell onto the - position: 3
screamed: "oh god, oh god!"  arms outstretched, she fell onto the - position: 5
complete it.  "now then", said  mr. samsa, "let's give thanks to god - position: 12

equipment:
own furnishings and equipment with them.  for this reason, many - position: 4
your equipment. - position: 2
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  many small donations - position: 3
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  many small donations - position: 6

strangeness:
strangeness from his voice by enunciating very carefully and putting - position: 1

weaker:
getting weaker and weaker and would finally disappear altogether. - position: 2
getting weaker and weaker and would finally disappear altogether. - position: 4

paragraphs:
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.e.1 - position: 10
project gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.e.8 or - position: 8
must comply with both paragraphs 1.e.1 through 1.e.7 and any additional - position: 5

scar:
left side seemed like one, painfully stretched scar,  and he limped - position: 8

rows:
badly on his two rows of legs.  one of the legs had been badly - position: 5

unsolicited:
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who - position: 3

persuaded:
his father and sister at first persuaded her against it.  gregor - position: 7

sad:
quite sad.  "how about if i sleep a little bit longer and forget all - position: 2
sad and revolting form, was a family member who could not be treated - position: 1
enjoy it although moving about in that way left him sad and tired to - position: 11

inaccurate:
"defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or - position: 9

return:
although there was no longer much warm affection given in return. - position: 11
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy - position: 11
license.  you must require such a user to return or - position: 9
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with - position: 10

examination:
they discussed their prospects and found that on closer examination - position: 10

startled:
was immediately startled, although he had been half asleep, and he - position: 3
was looking into various bottles, he startled her when she turned - position: 7
broke into convulsive tears.  her father, of course, was startled - position: 10
moment, and he waited.  he was not even startled out of this state - position: 9
bolted and locked.  the sudden noise behind gregor so startled him - position: 10

lid:
lid, and carried everything out.  she had hardly turned her back - position: 1

elastic:
and gregor's back was also more elastic than he had thought, which - position: 7

sleepiness:
fact, apart from excessive sleepiness after sleeping for so long, - position: 5

support:
are removed.  of course, we hope that you will support the project - position: 10
volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the - position: 4
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of - position: 3
gutenberg-tm ebooks with only a loose network of volunteer support. - position: 10

risked:
alarm.  but it was something that had to be risked. - position: 10

leading:
some hurried steps and the sound of the door leading into the front - position: 10
come in, he can't be seen", said his sister, obviously leading her - position: 11

tray:
boy, proud of posture with his tray on his head, passed them on his - position: 7

bushy:
of the coat his strong double-chin emerged; under the bushy - position: 10

void:
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions. - position: 7

pain-wracked:
startling as his pain-wracked condition meant that turning round - position: 4

wants:
clerk has come round and wants to know why you didn't leave on the - position: 6
wants to speak to you personally.  so please open up this door.  i'm - position: 1
driven out our tenants, it obviously wants to take over the whole - position: 7

stuck:
soon he was stuck fast and would not have been able to move at all - position: 4
to help too - he could save his picture later, although he stuck - position: 12

can:
people all the time so that you can never get to know anyone or - position: 8
become friendly with them.  it can all go to hell!"  he felt a - position: 6
business considerations."  "can the chief clerk come in to see you - position: 3
shocking, what can suddenly happen to a person! i was quite alright - position: 3
think you can get over an illness without staying at home.  please, - position: 3
samples and set off.  will you please just let me leave? you can - position: 13
staff, in fact, if i can say this in confidence, a better overview - position: 6
almost the whole year away from the office, so that we can very - position: 12
mother until later and was simply glad that she had come.  "you can - position: 13
they can.  perhaps this was what tempted grete to make gregor's - position: 2
unpleasant for the gentlemen? we can stop it straight away."  "on - position: 6
it, but i can.  i don't want to call this monster my brother, all i - position: 4
can say is: we have to try and get rid of it.  we've done all that's - position: 1
coughing to listen, "it'll be the death of both of you, i can see it - position: 13
harmed ourselves by believing it for so long.  how can that be - position: 10
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the united states without - position: 3
things that you can do with most project gutenberg-tm electronic works - position: 4
paragraph 1.c below.  there are a lot of things you can do with project - position: 11
the work.  you can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by - position: 4
what you can do with this work.  copyright laws in most countries are in - position: 3
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied - position: 10
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can - position: 13
and how your efforts and donations can help, see sections 3 and 4 - position: 7
information can be found at the foundation's web site and official - position: 2
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be - position: 11

hairs:
movement; he carried threads, hairs, and remains of food about on - position: 5

task:
set himself to the task of swinging the entire length of his body - position: 5
involved and then set himself to the task of turning the key in the - position: 8

crouched:
as he crouched there on the floor.  his mother was not far away in - position: 3

slamming:
her not to keep slamming the doors but with her strength and in her - position: 5
round sharply and left, slamming the door terribly as she went. - position: 5

proofread:
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread - position: 10

clerk:
chief clerk himself.  why did gregor have to be the only one - position: 2
even necessary - did the chief clerk have to come himself, and did - position: 6
suspicious that only the chief clerk could be trusted to have the - position: 6
"something's fallen down in there", said the chief clerk in the room - position: 9
that had happened to him today could ever happen to the chief clerk - position: 13
him know: "gregor, the chief clerk is here."  "yes, i know", said - position: 6
clerk has come round and wants to know why you didn't leave on the - position: 1
then the chief clerk called "good morning,  mr. samsa". "he isn't - position: 4
well", said his mother to the chief clerk, while his father - position: 8
explaining it,  mrs. samsa", said the chief clerk, "i hope it's - position: 8
business considerations."  "can the chief clerk come in to see you - position: 6
chief clerk in, because he was in danger of losing his job and if - position: 2
would seriously have expected him to let the chief clerk in.  it was - position: 10
the chief clerk now raised his voice, "mr. samsa", he called to him, - position: 3
with the chief clerk; the others were being so insistent, and he was - position: 4
quiet so that he could listen to what the chief clerk was saying. - position: 11
"did you understand a word of all that?" the chief clerk asked his - position: 11
chief clerk, with a calmness that was in contrast with his mother's - position: 2
whispering with the chief clerk, or perhaps they were all pressed - position: 5
"listen", said the chief clerk in the next room, "he's turning the - position: 5
pay attention to anything else, when he heard the chief clerk - position: 11
see", he said to the chief clerk, "that i'm not stubborn and i - position: 7
but the chief clerk had turned away as soon as gregor had started to - position: 4
clerk go away in this mood if his position in the firm was not to be - position: 1
future.  the chief clerk had to be held back, calmed down, convinced - position: 4
the chief clerk was a lover of women, surely she could persuade him; - position: 3
opening; tried to reach the chief clerk on the landing who, - position: 7
completely forgotten the chief clerk for the moment, but could not - position: 5
clerk had already reached the stairs; with his chin on the banister, - position: 1
wanted to be sure of reaching him; the chief clerk must have - position: 10
flight of the chief clerk seemed, unfortunately, to put gregor's - position: 5
controlled, but now, instead of running after the chief clerk - position: 10
(the chief clerk had left it behind on a chair, along with his hat - position: 3
and the chief clerk, but they would appear again in his thoughts, - position: 4

began:
he began to feel a mild, dull pain there that he had never felt - position: 2
a painful silence; in the room on his left his sister began to cry. - position: 12
see onto the landing and the stairs where they began their way down - position: 10
had that happened than, for the first time that day, he began to - position: 12
going backwards in a straight line; so he began, as quickly as - position: 9
violin.  whenever they began to talk of the need to earn money, - position: 4
oppressed with anxiety and self-reproach, he began to crawl about, - position: 7
in his confusion as the whole room began to spin around him he fell - position: 8
do any more.  and the injury in gregor's back began to hurt as much - position: 10
by surprise, no-one was chasing him but he began to rush to and fro - position: 9
windowpanes, perhaps indicating that spring was coming, she began to - position: 9
sister, who had been looking on anxiously, began to breathe again - position: 8
violin being played, but this evening it began to be heard from the - position: 8
smoking.  when the violin began playing they became attentive, stood - position: 5
his sister began to play; father and mother paid close attention, - position: 3
mother, who still had not had time to catch her breath, began to - position: 12
finished turning round he began to move straight ahead.  he was - position: 5
watched as it slowly began to get light everywhere outside the - position: 5

cry:
a painful silence; in the room on his left his sister began to cry. - position: 14
there was not a word, not any cry, from his family to distract him. - position: 8

bend:
control.  if he wanted to bend one of them, then that was the first - position: 6
away from the bed, bend down with the load and then be patient and - position: 5

indifferent:
again with the broom, indifferent as to whether it had been eaten or - position: 5
his back and sides; he was much too indifferent to everything now to - position: 9

allow:
business at all,  mr. samsa, we cannot allow there to be." - position: 8
1.f.5.  some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied - position: 6

danger:
chief clerk in, because he was in danger of losing his job and if - position: 8
put into extreme danger.  that was something his parents did not - position: 4

four:
between its four familiar walls.  a collection of textile samples - position: 3
could see from the bed that it had been set for four o'clock as it - position: 12
this sight, he spent four hours carrying the bedsheet over to the - position: 5
catching their breath, he sallied out, changed direction four times - position: 9

delaying:
now, without delaying any longer, grete took hold of all the bottles - position: 3

private:
in private, but since you cause me to waste my time here for no good - position: 2

breathing:
this."  and he lay there quietly a while longer, breathing lightly - position: 10
cold, she would stay at the window breathing deeply for a little - position: 8

secure:
all that secure.  i had originally intended to say all this to you - position: 3
gutenberg literary archive foundation was created to provide a secure - position: 10

lad:
me.  why else would gregor have missed a train! the lad only ever - position: 11

named:
***** this file should be named 5200.txt or 5200.zip ***** - position: 6

abruptly:
two women took him under the arms he would abruptly open his eyes, - position: 10

instead:
and instead congratulated himself for his cautious habit, acquired - position: 2
instead of them he only had all those little legs continuously - position: 1
to leave him now in peace instead of disturbing him with talking at - position: 7
controlled, but now, instead of running after the chief clerk - position: 4
with strangers and others he had forgotten, but instead of helping - position: 9
instead of letting her disturb him for no reason whenever she felt - position: 1
was like a kind of attack.  instead of being afraid, the charwoman - position: 7

gather:
gather, he chose the wrong direction, hit hard against the lower - position: 1
if he wanted to say something would invariably stop and gather his - position: 11

anxiety:
oppressed with anxiety and self-reproach, he began to crawl about, - position: 3

years:
six years i suppose - that's definitely what i'll do.  that's when - position: 2
would be extremely strained and suspicious as in fifteen years of - position: 10
understand very well; over the years, they had become convinced that - position: 6
even though he had been living in it for five years.  hardly aware - position: 11
his business when it had collapsed five years earlier.  gregor heard - position: 8
perhaps, one or two years, no more.  that's to say, it was money - position: 5
and lacking in self confidence.  during the five years that he had - position: 9
with anyone.  for thirty years, he produced and distributed project - position: 5

1.f.4:
1.f.4.  except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth - position: 1

determine:
send donations or determine the status of compliance for any - position: 4

detail:
everything in detail but, with outstretched hand, he made it quite - position: 3

silence:
a painful silence; in the room on his left his sister began to cry. - position: 3
then, once they were alone, they ate in near perfect silence.  it - position: 11
looked at him in unhappy silence.  his mother lay in her chair with - position: 6

suspicious:
would be extremely strained and suspicious as in fifteen years of - position: 6
suspicious at the slightest shortcoming? were all employees, every - position: 1
suspicious that only the chief clerk could be trusted to have the - position: 1

leaving:
of echo which made them unclear, leaving the hearer unsure whether - position: 7
there had been some secret prohibition on leaving the room.  it was - position: 8
door and was painfully injured, leaving vile brown flecks on it, - position: 6
home and leaving it in the middle of the room it would be in his way - position: 3
to the right of his mother, accused her of not leaving the cleaning - position: 11
though, was offered a seat by one of the gentlemen and sat - leaving - position: 13

strain:
strain and no success - he had put on a lot of weight and become - position: 1
and earn money? she suffered from asthma and it was a strain for her - position: 12
she would strain herself.  this lasted a very long time.  after - position: 3

fact:
fact, apart from excessive sleepiness after sleeping for so long, - position: 1
though, even apart from the fact that all the doors were locked? - position: 6
he really was able to start the key turning, ignoring the fact that - position: 12
staff, in fact, if i can say this in confidence, a better overview - position: 3
to see his good intentions as he did nothing to hinder him, in fact - position: 14

muster:
efforts to muster all the strength he could for running he could - position: 3

acquired:
and instead congratulated himself for his cautious habit, acquired - position: 9
unexpected confidence she had recently acquired, that made her - position: 6

habit:
and instead congratulated himself for his cautious habit, acquired - position: 8
about this reading, but maybe his father had lost the habit in - position: 11
pleasure at all, and so, to entertain himself, he got into the habit - position: 13
his father the way he stood there now; of late, with his new habit - position: 14
he got into the habit of closely watching it for one or two hours - position: 5
there.  they had got into the habit of putting things into this room - position: 7

request:
parents and of your employer, and really must request a clear and - position: 9
request, of the work in its original "plain vanilla ascii" or other - position: 1

links:
1.e.1.  the following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate - position: 7
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the project - position: 2
business@pglaf.org.  email contact links and up to date contact - position: 4

simultaneously:
simultaneously, with the thought of how their daughter was - position: 1

think:
think about i'd have given in my notice a long time ago, i'd have - position: 1
gone up to the boss and told him just what i think, tell him - position: 12
before, if that was possible, he could think of no way of bringing - position: 8
word of the conversation.  "well i can't think of any other way of - position: 8
think you can get over an illness without staying at home.  please, - position: 1
office.  i know that nobody likes the travellers.  they think we - position: 10
just prejudice but they have no particular reason to think better of - position: 10
of any thought for the future.  gregor, though, did think about the - position: 10
think about too much, so he started to move about, crawling up and - position: 1
of time to think undisturbed about how he would have to re-arrange - position: 4
if she did not think this sheet was necessary then all she had to do - position: 5
understand i have to see him?", and gregor would think to himself - position: 10
cope for himself? i think it'd be best to leave the room exactly the - position: 5
confused - he could think of no other way of explaining to himself - position: 4
think of any other way of saving himself than running; he almost - position: 1
think of taking over the family's affairs, just like before, the - position: 1
the lack of attention he was shown, and although he could think of - position: 12
to think it more important to calm the three gentlemen before - position: 2
seemed to think gregor was more entertaining than the violin playing - position: 3
humanly possible to look after it and be patient, i don't think - position: 12

fled:
flow of coffee.  that set his mother screaming anew, she fled from - position: 11
possible.  so he fled to the door of his room and pressed himself - position: 4
might see it as especially provoking if he fled onto the wall or - position: 9

observed:
gregor's father observed them anxiously.  it really now seemed very - position: 3

devoted:
devoted who would go so mad with pangs of conscience that he - position: 1

warnings:
part of the work for herself and ignoring her mother's warnings that - position: 11
importune him with little reproaches and warnings he would keep - position: 7

13:
first posted: may 13, 2002 - position: 4

broke:
round; a bottle fell to the ground and broke; a splinter cut - position: 9
broke into convulsive tears.  her father, of course, was startled - position: 1
more."  and she broke out so heavily in tears that they flowed down - position: 4
respect for.  "yes", she answered, and broke into a friendly laugh - position: 7

satisfied:
outside through the wooden door, as his mother was satisfied with - position: 10

imagined:
door and lifted it towards his father.  he really had not imagined - position: 12

temporarily:
then? it's quite possible for someone to be temporarily unable to - position: 9

official:
"plain vanilla ascii" or other format used in the official version - position: 10
posted on the official project gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net), - position: 4
information can be found at the foundation's web site and official - position: 11

expects:
to.  they carried out absolutely everything that the world expects - position: 10

gentle:
didn't you want to go somewhere?"  that gentle voice! gregor was - position: 8

unsure:
of echo which made them unclear, leaving the hearer unsure whether - position: 10

travellers:
office.  i know that nobody likes the travellers.  they think we - position: 8
he should.  and you're also well aware that we travellers spend - position: 10

harshly:
make mistakes about his employees and judge them more harshly than - position: 10

squeaking:
him, there was a painful and uncontrollable squeaking mixed in with - position: 8

midday:
second time after everyone had eaten their meal at midday as his - position: 10
himself under the couch, of course, but he had to wait until midday - position: 13
morning and at midday, and in the evening she would sweep it away - position: 4

apple:
down and rolled in front of him.  it was an apple; then another one - position: 11
now, without even taking the time for careful aim, threw one apple - position: 12
knocking into each other as if they had electric motors.  an apple - position: 12
no-one dared to remove the apple lodged in gregor's flesh, so it - position: 6
he could already hardly feel the decayed apple in his back or the - position: 8

frame:
illustrated magazine and housed in a nice, gilded frame.  it showed - position: 9
is working with his fretsaw.  he's made a little frame, for - position: 10

never:
he began to feel a mild, dull pain there that he had never felt - position: 13
people all the time so that you can never get to know anyone or - position: 9
service gregor had never once yet been ill.  his boss would - position: 4
out of the bed, but he had never seen this lower part, and could not - position: 8
never goes out in the evenings; he's been in town for a week now but - position: 1
him like a wild man.  gregor had never had any practice in moving - position: 8
wildest possibilities, but he never could have guessed what his - position: 5
remained from his father's business, at least he had never told him - position: 10
anything different, and gregor had never asked him about it anyway. - position: 6
times and they had never come again, at least not with the same - position: 5
mentioned as a lovely dream that could never be realised.  their - position: 8
and never to have to open the door unless it was especially - position: 2
screamed at her that she was never to clean gregor's room again; - position: 7
front of her.  from then on she never failed to open the door - position: 8
dung-beetle!", or "look at the old dung-beetle there!"  gregor never - position: 10
was without moving as if the door had never even been opened.  if - position: 9
everything for her to begin playing; his parents, who had never - position: 11
playing here as much as he would.  he never wanted to let her out of - position: 9
gentlemen had moved in; she was fully dressed as if she had never - position: 13
they were not at all bad - until then they had never asked each - position: 11

self-reproach:
oppressed with anxiety and self-reproach, he began to crawl about, - position: 5

arise:
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do - position: 2

conclusion:
hopes which, however, always led to the same conclusion: for the - position: 9

indirect:
liable to you for actual, direct, indirect, consequential, punitive or - position: 7

includes:
this web site includes information about project gutenberg-tm, - position: 4

thump:
all his force out of the bed.  there was a loud thump, but it wasn't - position: 12

live:
sleep.  other travelling salesmen live a life of luxury.  for - position: 5
to live off the interest; it was enough to maintain them for, - position: 2
money to live on had to be earned.  his father was healthy but old, - position: 3
possible for human beings to live with an animal like that and he - position: 6

turnover:
your turnover has been very unsatisfactory of late; i grant you that - position: 2

sprung:
sprung forward lightly, gregor had not heard her coming at all, and - position: 1

dared:
no-one dared to remove the apple lodged in gregor's flesh, so it - position: 2
playing, gregor had dared to come forward a little and already had - position: 4

deletions:
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any - position: 8

undisturbed:
of time to think undisturbed about how he would have to re-arrange - position: 5

mealtime:
only in secret.  for two whole days, all the talk at every mealtime - position: 13

homes:
open;  people often do in homes where something awful has happened. - position: 6

benefit:
benefit of his astonished and delighted family.  they had been good - position: 1

effect:
leave her work to help her mother, but nothing would have any effect - position: 13

charities:
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the united - position: 1

ordeal:
spare him this ordeal, but it was impossible for her to be in the - position: 4

addresses:
methods and addresses.  donations are accepted in a number of other - position: 3

louts:
one of them, louts, was there not one of them who was faithful and - position: 4

meters:
the window during the day, the few square meters of the floor did - position: 9

missed:
me.  why else would gregor have missed a train! the lad only ever - position: 7

drop:
suddenly interrupted.  she had let her hands drop and let violin and - position: 8

darkness:
family lead", said gregor to himself, and, gazing into the darkness, - position: 11
before it was opened and then, lying in the darkness of his room - position: 10
darkness.  he soon made the discovery that he could no longer move - position: 1
doors and shout loudly into the darkness of the bedrooms: "come and - position: 7

arrive:
we arrive back home exhausted from a trip, and that's when we feel - position: 2

surely:
parents, "surely he's not trying to make fools of us". "oh, god!" - position: 2
the chief clerk was a lover of women, surely she could persuade him; - position: 9

losing:
chief clerk in, because he was in danger of losing his job and if - position: 10

longer:
quite sad.  "how about if i sleep a little bit longer and forget all - position: 11
this."  and he lay there quietly a while longer, breathing lightly - position: 9
your incomprehensible stubbornness i no longer feel any wish - position: 6
if they were shocked then it would no longer be gregor's - position: 9
but he no longer gave any attention to it.  now he let himself fall - position: 4
different from the way that a human coughs and he was no longer sure - position: 13
he was no longer able to lift his head, but he nonetheless felt - position: 4
although there was no longer much warm affection given in return. - position: 5
burdensome about it, and the longer it went on, of course, the - position: 6
no longer had any particular reason to be shocked at his appearance, - position: 2
that he could not stand all of this much longer.  they were emptying - position: 10
infant school--he really could not wait any longer to see whether - position: 8
now, without delaying any longer, grete took hold of all the bottles - position: 5
immediately flew at him; gregor froze in shock; there was no longer - position: 12
they no longer held the lively conversations of earlier times, of - position: 3
staying longer at the table, even though he regularly fell asleep - position: 2
even if he was not hungry.  gregor's sister no longer thought about - position: 10
darkness.  he soon made the discovery that he could no longer move - position: 11

special:
special.  she thought he was laying there so still on purpose, - position: 1
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  special rules, - position: 7

answering:
shocked when he heard his own voice answering, it could hardly be - position: 8

lots:
where the itch was, and saw that it was covered with lots of little - position: 12

unwell:
people in commerce ever become slightly unwell then, fortunately or - position: 7
slightly unwell, an attack of dizziness, i haven't been able to get - position: 2

fancy:
lamp, would sew fancy underwear for a fashion shop; his sister, who - position: 4

accused:
to the right of his mother, accused her of not leaving the cleaning - position: 7

anew:
flow of coffee.  that set his mother screaming anew, she fled from - position: 9

employee:
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the foundation, anyone - position: 6

neglected:
of crawling about, he had neglected to pay attention to what was - position: 6
gregor, on the other hand, ought not to be neglected.  now, though, - position: 10

flown:
somewhere, for god's sake, he couldn't have flown away - she was so - position: 8

balance:
been hard for him to keep his balance if he rocked too hard.  the - position: 8

taken:
had taken the item he wanted.  what he heard his father say was some - position: 2
would the interrupted conversation slowly be taken up again. - position: 7
adult's appreciation of the burdensome job she had taken on. - position: 9
already taken out the chest containing his fretsaw and other tools; - position: 2
certainly be taken away by no-one.  he turned his head to face the - position: 3
sister had taken off some of her clothes after she had fainted to - position: 3
had taken a sales job, learned shorthand and french in the evenings - position: 2
even so his mother ought certainly not to have taken her place. - position: 10
room and found herself face to face with him.  he was taken totally - position: 12
meant not only in their own room but, since they had taken a room in - position: 12
they sat up at the table where, formerly, gregor had taken his meals - position: 11
his head in the living room.  before, he had taken great pride in - position: 10
and tears that had taken hold of her, displacing her earlier - position: 5
example.  grete, who had not taken her eyes from the corpse, said: - position: 6
jumped off after their friend as if taken with a sudden fear that - position: 8

appear:
appear, it's true - it had to do with the money that was recently - position: 1
and the chief clerk, but they would appear again in his thoughts, - position: 8
access to, the full project gutenberg-tm license must appear prominently - position: 9

reach:
opening; tried to reach the chief clerk on the landing who, - position: 4

furnishings:
own furnishings and equipment with them.  for this reason, many - position: 2

directions:
moving in different directions, and which he was moreover unable to - position: 4
now and then he used the tip of his stick to give directions from a - position: 13
been working for them, swayed gently in all directions.  "what is it - position: 9

periods:
other way.  during gregor's short periods in town, conversation with - position: 6

profit:
the project gutenberg literary archive foundation is a non profit - position: 10

achievements:
achievements - although he did not really distinguish one from the - position: 1

player:
called back gregor's father as if he had been the violin player - position: 12

intending:
with her mouth open, clearly intending not to close her mouth until - position: 6

proud:
boy, proud of posture with his tray on his head, passed them on his - position: 2

shoulder:
out in tears of emotion, and gregor would climb up to her shoulder - position: 13

holder:
from the stand, took their sticks from the holder, bowed without a - position: 9
included with the permission of the copyright holder.  information on - position: 8
imposed by the copyright holder on this work are set forth at the - position: 5
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied - position: 7
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution - position: 7
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  additional terms will be linked - position: 6
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work. - position: 5

washing:
ground one at a time.  the washing up from breakfast lay on the - position: 7
breakfast, his mother sacrificed herself by washing clothes for - position: 7

unpleasant:
unpleasant for him, now, whenever she entered the room.  no sooner - position: 1
unpleasant for the gentlemen? we can stop it straight away."  "on - position: 1

opposite:
different newspapers.  on the wall exactly opposite there was - position: 7
the opposite; the sight of the bare walls saddened her right to her - position: 2

enjoy:
enjoy it although moving about in that way left him sad and tired to - position: 1

slow:
very slow and clumsy.  would gregor's elderly mother now have to go - position: 2
hardly keep his eyes open; his thoughts became too slow for him to - position: 10
serious but too slow, - all of them appeared to him, mixed together - position: 4
that he started to move toward her, he was slow and infirm, but it - position: 10
the three gentlemen made slow but steady progress down the many - position: 5

transferring:
imaginable way of transferring gregor to the new address.  he could - position: 4

favourite:
favourite drink, and his sister had certainly left it there for him - position: 1

downloading:
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or - position: 2

receipt:
some receipt or document from the little cash box he had saved from - position: 2
you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he - position: 11
of receipt of the work. - position: 2

sign:
sign of a serious cold, which was an occupational hazard for - position: 1
of the lock as it snapped back was gregor's sign that he could break - position: 10
the key in the lock as a sign to him that he should withdraw.  he - position: 8
quiet, maybe that was a good sign.  then there was someone at the - position: 7
able to stand up but, as a sign of his pleasure, would just raise - position: 8
his sister just shrugged her shoulders as a sign of the helplessness - position: 9
a sign that of that there was no question. - position: 2
silent sign to the men that they might like to come into gregor's - position: 2

sleeping:
do because he was used to sleeping on his right, and in his present - position: 7
fact, apart from excessive sleepiness after sleeping for so long, - position: 7
of wearing nice clothes, sleeping late, helping out in the business, - position: 5
he would often lie there the whole night through, not sleeping a - position: 11
kept nodding it could be seen that he was not sleeping at all. - position: 11
to the living room where grete had been sleeping since the three - position: 9

removing:
removing the furniture that got in his way, especially the chest of - position: 1
removing not only the chest of drawers and the desk, as she had - position: 1

flecks:
door and was painfully injured, leaving vile brown flecks on it, - position: 9

copious:
in copious fur.  he hurried up onto the picture and pressed himself - position: 2

numb:
he lay there for a while, numb and immobile, all around him it was - position: 7

dear:
his room out; taking away everything that was dear to him; they had - position: 9

chasing:
by surprise, no-one was chasing him but he began to rush to and fro - position: 5

drink:
favourite drink, and his sister had certainly left it there for him - position: 2

thus:
conversation - with everyone's permission, in a way, and thus quite - position: 9
unless a copyright notice is included.  thus, we do not necessarily - position: 7

replied:
it even without checking.  "that's what i said",  replied the - position: 9

http://www.gutenberg.net:
http://www.gutenberg.net - position: 1

previous:
vain.  the previous morning while the doors were locked everyone had - position: 3
updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions - position: 6

stubbornness:
your incomprehensible stubbornness i no longer feel any wish - position: 3
with a kind of stubbornness, gregor's father refused to take his - position: 5

reasonable:
1.e.8.  you may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing - position: 6

pretend:
naturally, tried as far as possible to pretend there was nothing - position: 8

quieter:
quieter.  just from each other's glance and almost without knowing - position: 1

serviettes:
with his father and mother, they unfolded the serviettes and picked - position: 9

action:
consider whether to proceed with some kind of action for damages - position: 9
grounds for such an action."  he was silent and looked straight - position: 5

considering:
have to do the job himself.  and without considering that he still - position: 9

improvement:
time and whether, perhaps, any slight improvement could be seen. - position: 7
we've given up all hope of improvement and we're abandoning him to - position: 7
improvement for the time being, of course, would be achieved quite - position: 1

impossible:
and it's almost impossible to defend yourself from that sort of - position: 4
it was impossible for gregor to find out what they had told the - position: 3
spare him this ordeal, but it was impossible for her to be in the - position: 8
and perhaps also because he was weak from hunger, made it impossible - position: 12
impossible, "then perhaps we could come to some kind of arrangement - position: 1
arrived and from then on it was impossible to sleep in peace - she - position: 8

well:
hard of hearing.  well, there's still some hope; once i've got the - position: 4
feel completely well and even felt much hungrier than usual. - position: 3
"gregor? aren't you well? do you need anything?"  gregor answered to - position: 4
only then would he consider what to do next, as he was well aware - position: 13
part of his body might well, at present, be the most sensitive. - position: 6
as well, as they open up at work before seven o'clock."  and so he - position: 2
well", said his mother to the chief clerk, while his father - position: 1
continued to speak through the door.  "he isn't well, please believe - position: 9
stubborn; and i'm sure he isn't well, he said this morning that he - position: 7
word of the conversation.  "well i can't think of any other way of - position: 5
in.  i'll set off with the eight o'clock train, as well, these few - position: 11
care to do this not too loudly as even this might well sound - position: 12
have been calling to him, his father and his mother too: "well done, - position: 12
"now, then", said gregor, well aware that he was the only one to - position: 5
and concentration.  you're well aware that i'm seriously in debt to - position: 4
our employer as well as having to look after my parents and my - position: 4
earn an enormous wage as well as having a soft time of it.  that's - position: 6
he should.  and you're also well aware that we travellers spend - position: 6
understand very well; over the years, they had become convinced that - position: 3
was not familiar with how well he could move about in his present - position: 6
father into a panic as well.  until then he had been relatively self - position: 6
butter and salt.  as well as all that she had poured some water into - position: 5
parents would sleep for a little while then as well, and gregor's - position: 10
while, knowing full well that she would certainly have liked to - position: 4
from the wall.  well, she could certainly try it! he sat unyielding - position: 4
with that - he knew full well, right from the first day of his new - position: 6
see quite well, though, that there were more reasons than - position: 3
as well as he could but she had simply decided to leave him to it. - position: 2
in irritation.  "well?", asked  mr. samsa.  the charwoman stood in - position: 3
that made her unable to speak straight away, "well then, that thing - position: 9
blossoming into a well built and beautiful young lady.  they became - position: 4

lover:
the chief clerk was a lover of women, surely she could persuade him; - position: 6

thing:
would be the best thing for me.  if i didn't have my parents to - position: 5
the first thing he wanted to do was to get up in peace without being - position: 3
the first thing he wanted to do was get the lower part of his body - position: 3
thing to do would be to get free of it in whatever way he could at - position: 1
thing, we don't usually even hear about them, or if at all it's when - position: 1
that was the sort of totally pointless thing that went through his - position: 8
be better to leave the chest where it was, for one thing it was too - position: 12
even more, and for another thing it wasn't even sure that taking the - position: 6
and spread himself out, all his senses in confusion.  the last thing - position: 12
with a few air holes in it; the main thing holding the family back - position: 10
that made her unable to speak straight away, "well then, that thing - position: 12

days:
inedible two days before; a dry roll and some bread spread with - position: 3
only in secret.  for two whole days, all the talk at every mealtime - position: 7
there was still some money available from the old days.  it was not - position: 10
for the first fourteen days, gregor's parents could not bring - position: 5
the old days; but he had to just stand behind her doing nothing; she - position: 3
immediate notice on my room.  for the days that i have been living - position: 8
must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you - position: 6
you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he - position: 9
electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days - position: 11
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can - position: 8

updated:
last updated: may 20, 2012 - position: 2
updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions - position: 1

contented:
answer and explain everything, but in the circumstances contented - position: 9

able:
sections.  the bedding was hardly able to cover it and seemed ready - position: 6
have been able to get gregor to open the door by ourselves; he's so - position: 3
slightly unwell, an attack of dizziness, i haven't been able to get - position: 10
he really was able to start the key turning, ignoring the fact that - position: 4
backwards and was only able to go very slowly.  if gregor had only - position: 5
himself round.  it went very slowly, but perhaps his father was able - position: 12
soon he was stuck fast and would not have been able to move at all - position: 11
left side make it difficult to eat the food - he was only able to - position: 13
felt a great pride that he was able to provide a life like that in - position: 8
he was no longer able to lift his head, but he nonetheless felt - position: 5
although gregor wasn't able to hear any news directly he did listen - position: 4
if gregor had only been able to speak to his sister and thank her - position: 6
better she was able to do so, but as time went by gregor was also - position: 4
able to see through it all so much better.  it had even become very - position: 1
and his sister would not be able to see him even if she bent down. - position: 7
able to do by herself; she did not dare to ask for help from her - position: 1
find everything unchanged and he'll be able to forget the time in - position: 7
he was not able to prevent the sheet at its front from moving a - position: 4
able to stand up but, as a sign of his pleasure, would just raise - position: 1
would not be able to keep up this running about for long, as for - position: 4
so that she might be able to get a better position later on. - position: 6
structure that made her able to withstand the hardest of things in - position: 5
able to actually move around on those spindly little legs until then - position: 1

recover:
legs.  he rested there a little while to recover from the effort - position: 9

threw:
state couldn't get into that position.  however hard he threw - position: 10
there he let go of it and threw himself onto the door, holding - position: 8
bank, and threw it in an arc right across the room onto the sofa, - position: 3
now, without even taking the time for careful aim, threw one apple - position: 10
side, they hurried out of bed.  mr. samsa threw the blanket over his - position: 9

prove:
cleaner, and to prove it she gave gregor's body another shove with - position: 4

going:
going, in to the office? yes? will you report everything accurately, - position: 1
the harmful effects of what's been going on without even knowing - position: 7
going backwards in a straight line; so he began, as quickly as - position: 1
all, but he soon had to admit that the women going to and fro, their - position: 11
going on the rest of the flat the way he had done before.  he really - position: 1
gregor's sister was exhausted from going out to work, and looking - position: 6
and kiss her neck, which, since she had been going out to work, she - position: 10
while they were writing to tell them she was going, she'd finished - position: 10
in there, you needn't worry about how you're going to get rid of it. - position: 9

lady:
a lady fitted out with a fur hat and fur boa who sat upright, - position: 2
denuded of everything else that had been on it - of the lady dressed - position: 12
the contrary", said the middle gentleman, "would the young lady not - position: 10
blossoming into a well built and beautiful young lady.  they became - position: 9

clumsy:
very slow and clumsy.  would gregor's elderly mother now have to go - position: 4

resistance:
the floor with no resistance at all did she start to pay attention. - position: 5

cleared:
say when he had diligently cleared away all the food left for him, - position: 6
cleared up the room in the evening, but now she could not have been - position: 1

flesh:
no-one dared to remove the apple lodged in gregor's flesh, so it - position: 10

appearance:
no longer had any particular reason to be shocked at his appearance, - position: 12
usual.  it made him realise that she still found his appearance - position: 11
home.  "what's happened?" were his first words; grete's appearance - position: 9
his room, not while he lived, anyway; his shocking appearance - position: 10

protruded:
protruded from under the couch.  one day, in order to spare her even - position: 1

worst:
went into one of the worst of these places when his sister arrived - position: 6

possessed:
destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium - position: 7

newsletter:
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new ebooks. - position: 5

stretched:
a panic.  in the hall, he stretched his right hand far out towards - position: 7
left side seemed like one, painfully stretched scar,  and he limped - position: 7
before gregor came out again from under the couch and stretched - position: 11
her legs stretched out and pressed against each other, her eyes - position: 3

ear:
sleeve, whisper endearments into his ear, gregor's sister would - position: 6
ear bent down to him while he told her how he had always intended to - position: 1

knowing:
and while gregor gushed out these words, hardly knowing what he was - position: 9
the harmful effects of what's been going on without even knowing - position: 11
down on it without knowing what she was doing; without even seeming - position: 5
while, knowing full well that she would certainly have liked to - position: 2
not knowing what he should save first before his attention was - position: 2
knowing it.  they asked gregor's father for explanations, raised - position: 1
quieter.  just from each other's glance and almost without knowing - position: 10

gregor:
one morning, when gregor samsa woke from troubled dreams, he found - position: 4
gregor then turned to look out the window at the dull weather. - position: 1
service gregor had never once yet been ill.  his boss would - position: 2
more, would he have been entirely wrong in this case? gregor did in - position: 11
there was a cautious knock at the door near his head.  "gregor", - position: 12
didn't you want to go somewhere?"  that gentle voice! gregor was - position: 10
he had heard properly or not.  gregor had wanted to give a full - position: 7
made the other members of the family aware that gregor, against - position: 10
"gregor, gregor", he called, "what's wrong?"  and after a short - position: 1
"gregor, gregor", he called, "what's wrong?"  and after a short - position: 2
while he called again with a warning deepness in his voice: "gregor! - position: 12
gregor!"  at the other side door his sister came plaintively: - position: 1
"gregor? aren't you well? do you need anything?"  gregor answered to - position: 1
"gregor? aren't you well? do you need anything?"  gregor answered to - position: 9
his breakfast, but his sister whispered: "gregor, open the door, i - position: 7
beg of you."  gregor, however, had no thought of opening the door, - position: 4
done in bed", gregor said to himself, "so don't keep trying to do - position: 4
when gregor was already sticking half way out of the bed - the new - position: 2
"they're not opening the door", gregor said to himself, caught in - position: 6
went to the door as ever and opened it.  gregor only needed to hear - position: 10
chief clerk himself.  why did gregor have to be the only one - position: 6
on the left.  gregor tried to imagine whether something of the sort - position: 4
him know: "gregor, the chief clerk is here."  "yes, i know", said - position: 3
gregor to himself; but without daring to raise his voice loud enough - position: 1
"gregor", said his father now from the room to his left, "the chief - position: 1
me.  why else would gregor have missed a train! the lad only ever - position: 5
as gregor opens the door.  anyway, i'm glad you're here; we wouldn't - position: 2
have been able to get gregor to open the door by ourselves; he's so - position: 6
is, but he isn't."  "i'll be there in a moment", said gregor slowly - position: 12
again.  "no", said gregor.  in the room on his right there followed - position: 4
that yet.  gregor was still there and had not the slightest - position: 3
found for it later on, it was not something for which gregor could - position: 12
be sacked on the spot.  and it seemed to gregor much more sensible - position: 10
"but sir", called gregor, beside himself and forgetting all else in - position: 4
and while gregor gushed out these words, hardly knowing what he was - position: 3
away.  gregor is ill.  quick, get the doctor.  did you hear the way - position: 2
gregor spoke just now?"  "that was the voice of an animal", said the - position: 1
gregor, in contrast, had become much calmer.  so they couldn't - position: 1
gregor slowly pushed his way over to the door with the chair.  once - position: 1
key."  gregor was greatly encouraged by this; but they all should - position: 2
gregor", they should have cried, "keep at it, keep hold of the - position: 1
towards gregor and sank down onto the floor into her skirts that - position: 2
wanting to knock gregor back into his room.  then he looked - position: 4
so gregor did not go into the room, but leant against the inside of - position: 2
photograph of gregor when he was a lieutenant in the army, his sword - position: 3
"now, then", said gregor, well aware that he was the only one to - position: 4
but the chief clerk had turned away as soon as gregor had started to - position: 11
while gregor was speaking, but moved steadily towards the door - position: 2
gregor realised that it was out of the question to let the chief - position: 1
this job would provide for gregor for his entire life, and besides, - position: 6
of any thought for the future.  gregor, though, did think about the - position: 7
and finally won over; the future of gregor and his family depended - position: 8
in tears while gregor was still lying peacefully on his back.  and - position: 4
of his shocked state.  but his sister was not there, gregor would - position: 11
gregor fell immediately over and, with a little scream as he sought - position: 1
held her head suggested she wanted to see gregor better, but the - position: 9
"mother, mother", said gregor gently, looking up at her.  he had - position: 4
gregor, though, had no time to spare for his parents now; the chief - position: 1
he looked back for the last time.  gregor made a run for him; he - position: 8
himself, or at least not impeding gregor as he ran after him, - position: 7
left, and used them to drive gregor back into his room, stamping his - position: 7
him like a wild man.  gregor had never had any practice in moving - position: 6
backwards and was only able to go very slowly.  if gregor had only - position: 11
any moment.  eventually, though, gregor realised that he had no - position: 5
that unbearable hissing! it was making gregor quite confused.  when - position: 7
the other of the double doors so that gregor would have enough space - position: 9
to get through.  he was merely fixed on the idea that gregor should - position: 12
have allowed gregor the time to get himself upright as preparation - position: 3
than ever, was to drive gregor forwards all the harder as if there - position: 6
had been nothing in the way; it sounded to gregor as if there was - position: 10
experience, and gregor pushed himself into the doorway without - position: 3
it was not until it was getting dark that evening that gregor awoke - position: 12
and tops of the furniture, but down below, where gregor was, it was - position: 10
through the crack in the door, gregor could see that the gas had - position: 7
family lead", said gregor to himself, and, gazing into the darkness, - position: 4
frightening end? that was something that gregor did not want to - position: 7
enter the room but thought better of it.  gregor went and waited - position: 9
was; but the door was opened no more that night and gregor waited in - position: 12
gregor soon had the opportunity to test the strength of his - position: 1
gregor had pushed his head forward, right to the edge of the couch, - position: 1
not her bare hands - and carried it out.  gregor was extremely - position: 9
few raisins and almonds; some cheese that gregor had declared - position: 8
that gregor would know he could make things as comfortable for - position: 2
before gregor came out again from under the couch and stretched - position: 2
this was how gregor received his food each day now, once in the - position: 4
it was impossible for gregor to find out what they had told the - position: 5
becoming fully used to the situation - that gregor would sometimes - position: 8
although gregor wasn't able to hear any news directly he did listen - position: 2
gregor often heard how one of them would unsuccessfully urge another - position: 1
his business when it had collapsed five years earlier.  gregor heard - position: 10
of the first good news that gregor heard since he had first been - position: 7
anything different, and gregor had never asked him about it anyway. - position: 4
money in quite different ways.  gregor converted his success at work - position: 6
splendour, even though gregor had later earned so much that he was - position: 4
them.  they had even got used to it, both gregor and the family, - position: 10
gregor only remained close to his sister now.  unlike him, she was - position: 1
parents did not like to hear this innocent talk, but gregor thought - position: 11
gregor learned, to his pleasure, that despite all their misfortunes - position: 1
money that gregor had been bringing home every month, keeping only a - position: 3
behind the door, gregor nodded with enthusiasm in his pleasure at - position: 4
gregor would always first let go of the door and then throw himself - position: 1
if gregor had only been able to speak to his sister and thank her - position: 2
better she was able to do so, but as time went by gregor was also - position: 13
while.  she would alarm gregor twice a day with this running about - position: 5
would have been no surprise for gregor as it would have been - position: 7
threatened her and tried to bite her.  gregor went straight to hide - position: 8
pleasure for gregor to cut himself off so completely.  she left the - position: 3
sheet where it was.  gregor even thought he glimpsed a look of - position: 5
everything looked, what gregor had eaten, how he had behaved this - position: 4
his mother also wanted to go in and visit gregor relatively soon but - position: 10
his father and sister at first persuaded her against it.  gregor - position: 11
"let me go and see gregor, he is my unfortunate son! can't you - position: 6
understand i have to see him?", and gregor would think to himself - position: 8
consideration for his parents, gregor wanted to avoid being seen at - position: 5
she approached the room, gregor could hear his mother express her - position: 5
was alright; and only then did she let her mother enter.  gregor had - position: 12
been thrown down by chance.  gregor also refrained, this time, from - position: 6
of feeble women to be heaving about, but gregor listened as they - position: 9
heart; and why wouldn't gregor feel the same way about it, he'd been - position: 5
almost whispering as if wanting gregor (whose whereabouts she did - position: 6
way it was before so that when gregor comes back to us again he'll - position: 8
hearing these words from his mother made gregor realise that the - position: 8
insist; she had indeed noticed that gregor needed a lot of room to - position: 7
dare enter a room dominated by gregor crawling about the bare walls - position: 7
strength she had.  the chest of drawers was something that gregor - position: 11
of the room than gregor poked his head out from under the couch to - position: 5
the sight of gregor, he might have made her ill, so gregor hurried - position: 4
the sight of gregor, he might have made her ill, so gregor hurried - position: 12
gregor kept trying to assure himself that nothing unusual was - position: 1
belly.  this picture at least, now totally covered by gregor, would - position: 10
looked around.  her eyes met those of gregor on the wall.  perhaps - position: 8
living room for a while?"  gregor could see what grete had in mind, - position: 6
wallpaper, and before she even realised it was gregor that she saw - position: 9
"gregor!" shouted his sister, glowering at him and shaking her fist. - position: 1
smelling salts to bring her mother out of her faint; gregor wanted - position: 11
shut with her foot.  so now gregor was shut out from his mother, - position: 7
fainted, but she's better now.  gregor got out."  "just as i - position: 6
wouldn't listen, would you."  it was clear to gregor that grete had - position: 9
that meant gregor would now have to try to calm his father, as he - position: 3
see straight away that gregor had the best intentions and would go - position: 5
angry and glad at the same time.  gregor drew his head back from the - position: 8
there entombed in his bed when gregor came back from his business - position: 7
his overcoat between gregor and his mother, would always labour his - position: 4
gregor.  he probably did not even know himself what he had in mind, - position: 1
but nonetheless lifted his feet unusually high.  gregor was amazed - position: 8
impression of a chase as everything went so slowly.  gregor remained - position: 10
ceiling.  whatever he did, gregor had to admit that he certainly - position: 5
immediately flew at him; gregor froze in shock; there was no longer - position: 5
it, hit squarely and lodged in his back; gregor wanted to drag - position: 9
around him, uniting herself with him totally - now gregor lost his - position: 9
enough to remind even his father that gregor, despite his current - position: 8
because of his injuries, gregor had lost much of his mobility - - position: 5
course, the ones that gregor always thought about with longing when - position: 5
efforts of gregor's mother and sister to look after it.  gregor - position: 11
give more attention to gregor than was absolutely necessary? the - position: 5
the large amount of sewing work she did.  gregor even learned, - position: 9
imaginable way of transferring gregor to the new address.  he could - position: 5
gregor hardly slept at all, either night or day.  sometimes he would - position: 1
and there were little balls of dust and filth.  at first, gregor - position: 12
water to do it - although that much dampness also made gregor ill - position: 11
thumped on the table with her small fists; and gregor hissed in - position: 10
after gregor as she had done before was even more work for her, but - position: 2
gregor, on the other hand, ought not to be neglected.  now, though, - position: 1
her long life, wasn't really repelled by gregor.  just by chance one - position: 8
dung-beetle!", or "look at the old dung-beetle there!"  gregor never - position: 9
speak to him in that way once again.  gregor was so resentful of it - position: 9
"aren't you coming any closer, then?", she asked when gregor turned - position: 10
gregor had almost entirely stopped eating.  only if he happened to - position: 1
full beards, as gregor learned peering through the crack in the door - position: 4
unless gregor made his way through the junk and moved it somewhere - position: 2
gregor found it easy to give up having the door open, he had, after - position: 1
they sat up at the table where, formerly, gregor had taken his meals - position: 9
seemed remarkable to gregor that above all the various noises of - position: 4
wanted to show gregor that you need teeth in order to eat and it was - position: 4
gregor anxiously, "but not anything like they're eating.  they do - position: 1
throughout all this time, gregor could not remember having heard the - position: 5
playing, gregor had dared to come forward a little and already had - position: 2
expression.  gregor crawled a little further forward, keeping his - position: 2
out in tears of emotion, and gregor would climb up to her shoulder - position: 7
gregor as he slowly moved forward.  the violin went silent, the - position: 1
shaking his head, and then looked back at gregor.  his father seemed - position: 9
driving gregor out, even though they were not at all upset and - position: 2
seemed to think gregor was more entertaining than the violin playing - position: 4
trying to block their view of gregor with his body.  now they did - position: 7
they had had a neighbour like gregor in the next room without - position: 7
throughout all this, gregor had lain still where the three gentlemen - position: 4
occasionally looked down at gregor as he lay there immobile. - position: 5
you've got to get rid of the idea that that's gregor.  we've only - position: 11
gregor? if it were gregor he would have seen long ago that it's not - position: 1
gregor? if it were gregor he would have seen long ago that it's not - position: 5
anywhere near gregor.  she rushed over to behind her father, who had - position: 3
but gregor had had no intention of frightening anyone, least of all - position: 2
"maybe now they'll let me turn round", thought gregor and went back - position: 9
bolted and locked.  the sudden noise behind gregor so startled him - position: 8
sprung forward lightly, gregor had not heard her coming at all, and - position: 4
"what now, then?", gregor asked himself as he looked round in the - position: 4
made her usual brief look in on gregor and at first found nothing - position: 8
tried to tickle gregor with it from the doorway.  when she had no - position: 4
gregor, one that was in a better location and, most of all, more - position: 1

woken:
from his deep and coma-like sleep.  he would have woken soon - position: 10
room being carefully shut had woken him.  the light from the - position: 6

save:
waiting to save him. - position: 3
not knowing what he should save first before his attention was - position: 6
to help too - he could save his picture later, although he stuck - position: 6
anger that no-one had even thought of closing the door to save him - position: 12

computers:
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers - position: 11
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  it exists - position: 7

handle:
the handle of the door to open it completely. - position: 2
that, he took hold of the door handle and slammed the door. - position: 8

better:
towards the headboard so that he could lift his head better; found - position: 11
himself out now at any price; better to stay in bed than lose - position: 7
remind himself that calm consideration was much better than rushing - position: 8
last night, my parents know about it, perhaps better than me, i had - position: 9
better.  he felt that he had been drawn back in among people, and - position: 1
just prejudice but they have no particular reason to think better of - position: 11
it.  but you, sir, you have a better overview than the rest of the - position: 8
staff, in fact, if i can say this in confidence, a better overview - position: 12
held her head suggested she wanted to see gregor better, but the - position: 10
enter the room but thought better of it.  gregor went and waited - position: 6
much closer, but now it was certainly better the way his father had - position: 8
better she was able to do so, but as time went by gregor was also - position: 1
able to see through it all so much better.  it had even become very - position: 9
that maybe it would be better if his mother came in, not every day - position: 6
everything much better than his sister who, for all her courage, was - position: 3
better control of his body than before and, even with a fall as - position: 1
be better to leave the chest where it was, for one thing it was too - position: 2
fainted, but she's better now.  gregor got out."  "just as i - position: 4
so that she might be able to get a better position later on. - position: 10
gregor, one that was in a better location and, most of all, more - position: 7

legs:
to slide off any moment.  his many legs, pitifully thin compared - position: 8
wouldn't have to look at the floundering legs, and only stopped when - position: 8
to feel the place with one of his legs he drew it quickly back - position: 9
instead of them he only had all those little legs continuously - position: 10
his legs as they struggled against each other even harder than - position: 2
little legs would find a use.  should he really call for help - position: 2
still, although his little legs only became all the more lively as - position: 5
it with his little legs.  by now he had also calmed down, and kept - position: 5
legs.  he rested there a little while to recover from the effort - position: 1
something to hold onto, landed on his numerous little legs.  hardly - position: 10
feel alright with his body; the little legs had the solid ground - position: 8
by himself, the little legs along one side hung quivering in the air - position: 5
badly on his two rows of legs.  one of the legs had been badly - position: 7
badly on his two rows of legs.  one of the legs had been badly - position: 11
himself as he liked.  gregor's little legs whirred, at last he could - position: 7
from all sides.  with his head and legs pulled in against him and - position: 8
her legs stretched out and pressed against each other, her eyes - position: 2
that his little legs collapsed under him.  it was his sister who had - position: 4
able to actually move around on those spindly little legs until then - position: 10
until then, but now he was not lifted up on his little legs, nor did - position: 13

exchange:
while mother and sister would exchange a tired grin. - position: 6
and it was then harder than ever to persuade him to exchange the - position: 12

trembling:
trembling shoulders as he left.  he did not keep still for a moment - position: 1
when the violin on his mother's lap fell from her trembling fingers - position: 11

father:
their expectations was still at home, and soon his father came - position: 10
long pauses between each, individual word.  his father went back to - position: 8
if somebody came to help him.  two strong people - he had his father - position: 13
"gregor", said his father now from the room to his left, "the chief - position: 4
well", said his mother to the chief clerk, while his father - position: 11
now then?", asked his father impatiently, knocking at the door - position: 5
screams.  "anna! anna!" his father called into the kitchen through - position: 5
have been calling to him, his father and his mother too: "well done, - position: 7
at his father.  then she unfolded her arms, took two steps forward - position: 3
her breast.  his father looked hostile, and clenched his fists as if - position: 4
table; there was so much of it because, for gregor's father, - position: 11
the table and into the arms of his father as he rushed towards her. - position: 9
father into a panic as well.  until then he had been relatively self - position: 1
gregor's father seized the chief clerk's stick in his right hand - position: 2
foot at him as he went.  gregor's appeals to his father were of no - position: 11
turned his head his father merely stamped his foot all the harder. - position: 5
stop gregor's father as he drove him back, making hissing noises at - position: 3
his father would become impatient, and there was the threat of a - position: 2
possible and with frequent anxious glances at his father, to turn - position: 9
himself round.  it went very slowly, but perhaps his father was able - position: 10
distance as to which way to turn.  if only his father would stop - position: 11
his present mood, it obviously did not occur to his father to open - position: 11
now more than one father behind him; it was not a pleasant - position: 5
ground.  then his father gave him a hefty shove from behind which - position: 4
been lit in the living room.  his father at this time would normally - position: 8
about this reading, but maybe his father had lost the habit in - position: 7
sister would send the maid away on some errand.  gregor's father and - position: 11
would sometimes ask his father whether he would like a beer, hoping - position: 5
for the chance to go and fetch it herself.  when his father then - position: 12
she could send the housekeeper for it, but then his father would - position: 11
even before the first day had come to an end, his father had - position: 12
had taken the item he wanted.  what he heard his father say was some - position: 11
all go silent.  "what's that he's doing now", his father would say - position: 10
when explaining things, his father repeated himself several times, - position: 5
much closer, but now it was certainly better the way his father had - position: 12
money to live on had to be earned.  his father was healthy but old, - position: 10
them, father and mother, would often both wait outside the door of - position: 2
his father and sister at first persuaded her against it.  gregor - position: 2
father; the sixteen year old maid had carried on bravely since the - position: 1
gregor's father was not there and fetch his mother to help her.  as - position: 2
heavy for them to get the job finished before gregor's father got - position: 11
that grete would have to go and answer it.  his father had arrived - position: 11
expected", said his father, "just as i always said, but you women - position: 4
not said enough and that his father took it to mean that something - position: 7
that meant gregor would now have to try to calm his father, as he - position: 12
against it so that his father, when he came in from the hall, could - position: 6
his father, though, was not in the mood to notice subtleties like - position: 2
door and lifted it towards his father.  he really had not imagined - position: 7
his father the way he stood there now; of late, with his new habit - position: 2
that really his father? the same tired man as used to be laying - position: 4
life, that his father thought it necessary to always be extremely - position: 4
strict with him.  and so he ran up to his father, stopped when his - position: 11
father stopped, scurried forwards again when he moved, even - position: 1
all this time on the floor, largely because he feared his father - position: 12
each step his father took he had to carry out countless movements. - position: 4
any point in running as his father had decided to bombard him.  he - position: 7
make it easier for her to breathe), she ran to his father, her - position: 12
stumbling over the skirts she pushed herself to his father, her arms - position: 10
enough to remind even his father that gregor, despite his current - position: 6
his father would go to sleep in his chair; his mother and sister - position: 2
sometimes his father would wake up and say to gregor's mother - position: 3
with a kind of stubbornness, gregor's father refused to take his - position: 7
gregor's father would slumber where he was, fully dressed, as if - position: 2
father to wake him and try to persuade him to go to bed, as he - position: 1
his sister her pen so that they could run after his father and - position: 12
from poor people, gregor's father brought bank employees their - position: 5
as when it was new.  after they had come back from taking his father - position: 14
broke into convulsive tears.  her father, of course, was startled - position: 6
helpless; then they, too, became agitated; gregor's father, standing - position: 8
while his mother tried to draw his father, who was beside himself - position: 8
with his father and mother, they unfolded the serviettes and picked - position: 3
father came into the living room before he went into the kitchen, - position: 1
the kitchen, as gregor's father called out: "is the playing perhaps - position: 5
called back gregor's father as if he had been the violin player - position: 4
gregor's father soon appeared with the music stand, his mother with - position: 2
their own chairs; his father leant against the door with his right - position: 5
his sister began to play; father and mother paid close attention, - position: 6
gregor's father observed them anxiously.  it really now seemed very - position: 2
"mr. samsa!", shouted the middle gentleman to gregor's father, - position: 9
shaking his head, and then looked back at gregor.  his father seemed - position: 11
knowing it.  they asked gregor's father for explanations, raised - position: 6
which, under pressure from her father, the three gentlemen were more - position: 6
before the three gentlemen had reached the room.  gregor's father - position: 10
thereby brought gregor's father to a halt.  "i declare here and - position: 4
gregor's father staggered back to his seat, feeling his way with his - position: 2
"father, mother", said his sister, hitting the table with her hand - position: 1
"she's absolutely right", said gregor's father to himself.  his - position: 6
forehead.  her words seemed to give gregor's father some more - position: 8
speaking only to her father, as her mother was too occupied with - position: 5
"my child", said her father with sympathy and obvious understanding, - position: 5
"if he could just understand us", said his father almost as a - position: 9
"if he could just understand us", repeated gregor's father, closing - position: 9
"it's got to go", shouted his sister, "that's the only way, father. - position: 12
flat and force us to sleep on the streets.  father, look, just - position: 10
anywhere near gregor.  she rushed over to behind her father, who had - position: 10
nearly closed with exhaustion; his sister sat next to his father - position: 11

assistant:
assistant would have been there to see the five o'clock train go, he - position: 1
time ago.  the office assistant was the boss's man, spineless, and - position: 5

speech:
state, or that his speech still might not - or probably would not - - position: 5

unlink:
1.e.4.  do not unlink or detach or remove the full project gutenberg-tm - position: 4

bowl:
had filled his pockets with fruit from the bowl on the sideboard and - position: 9

irritably:
irritably.  she just put her finger on her lips and made a quick and - position: 1

entitled:
the pantry where he could take all the things he was entitled to, - position: 12

shaking:
"gregor!" shouted his sister, glowering at him and shaking her fist. - position: 9
slowly shaking his head for a quarter of an hour with his eyes - position: 2
shaking his head, and then looked back at gregor.  his father seemed - position: 1

unlocked:
one of the doors and the other had clearly been unlocked some time - position: 11

chair:
against the back of a nearby chair and held tightly to the edges of - position: 7
gregor slowly pushed his way over to the door with the chair.  once - position: 12
(the chief clerk had left it behind on a chair, along with his hat - position: 10
to all the effort of pushing a chair to the window, climbing up onto - position: 8
the sill and, propped up in the chair, leaning on the window to - position: 8
notice the chair twice before she would always push it back to its - position: 3
his father would go to sleep in his chair; his mother and sister - position: 9
chair for his bed.  then, however much mother and sister would - position: 1
on him.  he would just sink deeper into his chair.  only when the - position: 10
out of his chair and the two parents looked on astonished and - position: 4
the chair in her hand had been slammed down into gregor's back. - position: 2
round again, and she calmly put the chair back in the corner. - position: 8
the chair where the gentleman happened to have placed it - out of - position: 2
chair as if more willing to sacrifice her own mother than stay - position: 1
looked at him in unhappy silence.  his mother lay in her chair with - position: 12
other.  mr. samsa twisted round in his chair to look at them and sat - position: 8

sharply:
round sharply and left, slamming the door terribly as she went. - position: 2

1.e.9:
1.e.9. - position: 1
unless you comply with paragraph 1.e.8 or 1.e.9. - position: 8
1.e.9.  if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a project gutenberg-tm - position: 1

number:
stretch it out for several hours as he sat reading a number of - position: 12
number is 64-6221541.  its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at - position: 1
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be - position: 3
methods and addresses.  donations are accepted in a number of other - position: 9

corner:
round again, and she calmly put the chair back in the corner. - position: 12
corner.  one time, though, the charwoman left the door to the living - position: 1
the way in a corner. - position: 5
steps.  as they turned the corner on each floor they disappeared and - position: 6

childish:
couch.  it was more than childish perversity, of course, or the - position: 6

putting:
strangeness from his voice by enunciating very carefully and putting - position: 10
there.  they had got into the habit of putting things into this room - position: 9

windows:
line of windows piercing its facade; the rain was still - position: 3
same room with him with the windows closed. - position: 7

extent:
literary archive foundation are tax deductible to the full extent - position: 10

available:
there was still some money available from the old days.  it was not - position: 6
gutenberg-tm license (available with this file or online at - position: 3
remain freely available for generations to come.  in 2001, the project - position: 3

tempted:
they can.  perhaps this was what tempted grete to make gregor's - position: 7

happy:
swing to it; and up there, relaxed and almost happy, it might happen - position: 10

communicated:
"mother?" his sister called from the other side.  they communicated - position: 10

lose:
himself out now at any price; better to stay in bed than lose - position: 13

right:
do because he was used to sleeping on his right, and in his present - position: 10
himself onto his right, he always rolled back to where he was.  he - position: 4
everything i would, let him know just what i feel.  he'd fall right - position: 13
especially when you have to go right up close because the boss is - position: 7
from the room on his right, gregor's sister whispered to him to let - position: 6
again.  "no", said gregor.  in the room on his right there followed - position: 10
that that could not be the right explanation.  but now that i see - position: 7
work, but that's just the right time to remember what's been - position: 6
something to show that you grant that i'm at least partly right!" - position: 12
a panic.  in the hall, he stretched his right hand far out towards - position: 9
gregor's father seized the chief clerk's stick in his right hand - position: 10
gregor had pushed his head forward, right to the edge of the couch, - position: 7
the opposite; the sight of the bare walls saddened her right to her - position: 11
bank, and threw it in an arc right across the room onto the sofa, - position: 8
with that - he knew full well, right from the first day of his new - position: 7
protrusions - then, right beside him, lightly tossed, something flew - position: 3
to the right of his mother, accused her of not leaving the cleaning - position: 3
their own chairs; his father leant against the door with his right - position: 12
"she's absolutely right", said gregor's father to himself.  his - position: 3
located in the united states, we do not claim a right to prevent you from - position: 11
1.f.2.  limited warranty, disclaimer of damages - except for the "right - position: 10
1.f.3.  limited right of replacement or refund - if you discover a - position: 3
1.f.4.  except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth - position: 6

84116:
809 north 1500 west, salt lake city, ut 84116, (801) 596-1887, email - position: 9

relaxed:
swing to it; and up there, relaxed and almost happy, it might happen - position: 7

meant:
parents about the things that concerned him.  this meant that his - position: 9
see what he could do about it.  he meant to be as careful and - position: 9
that meant gregor would now have to try to calm his father, as he - position: 2
meant not only in their own room but, since they had taken a room in - position: 1
and the hand that held it.  the woman most likely meant to fetch the - position: 11
startling as his pain-wracked condition meant that turning round - position: 6

form:
sad and revolting form, was a family member who could not be treated - position: 4
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any - position: 7
word processing or hypertext form.  however, if you provide access to or - position: 5
form.  any alternate format must include the full project gutenberg-tm - position: 1
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest - position: 6

lain:
the family having noticed it, lain in his room in its darkest - position: 6
throughout all this, gregor had lain still where the three gentlemen - position: 6

rules:
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  special rules, - position: 8
rules is very easy.  you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose - position: 1

sentence:
1.e.1.  the following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate - position: 4
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.e.1 with - position: 4

pen:
his sister her pen so that they could run after his father and - position: 4

metamorphosis:
the project gutenberg ebook of metamorphosis, by franz kafka - position: 6
title: metamorphosis - position: 2
*** start of this project gutenberg ebook metamorphosis *** - position: 8
metamorphosis - position: 1
end of the project gutenberg ebook of metamorphosis, by franz kafka - position: 8
*** end of this project gutenberg ebook metamorphosis *** - position: 8

making:
top of that there's the curse of travelling, worries about making - position: 11
both sides: "i'm ready, now", making an effort to remove all the - position: 6
accusations you're making; nobody's ever said a word to me about any - position: 3
ill and we're making him suffer.  grete! grete!" she then cried. - position: 4
were even making the effort to carry him where he wanted to go; and - position: 3
stop gregor's father as he drove him back, making hissing noises at - position: 9
that unbearable hissing! it was making gregor quite confused.  when - position: 6
for getting through the doorway.  what he did, making more noise - position: 9
and noise making; he would stay under the couch shivering the whole - position: 3
she had already finished making the beds and slipped out again - position: 5
sometimes to stop and take a rest.  no-one was making him rush any - position: 10

gently:
knocking at one of the side doors, gently, but with his fist. - position: 8
"mother, mother", said gregor gently, looking up at her.  he had - position: 5
as soon as it struck ten, gregor's mother would speak gently to his - position: 11
been working for them, swayed gently in all directions.  "what is it - position: 6

gushed:
and while gregor gushed out these words, hardly knowing what he was - position: 4

badly:
badly on his two rows of legs.  one of the legs had been badly - position: 1
badly on his two rows of legs.  one of the legs had been badly - position: 14

slid:
he slid back into his former position.  "getting up early all the - position: 2
slid down again, but he finally gave himself one last swing and - position: 1
thrown without much force glanced against gregor's back and slid off - position: 10

hopefully:
careful as he swang over onto the floor, where, hopefully, the - position: 10

eyes:
must have tried it a hundred times, shut his eyes so that he - position: 10
eyes to the window and look out as clearly as he could, but - position: 1
uncertainly round the living room, covered his eyes with his hands - position: 8
without taking his eyes off him.  he moved very gradually, as if - position: 4
milk, nearly covering his eyes with it.  but he soon drew his head - position: 5
newspaper.  quickly one after another, his eyes watering with - position: 7
watched with bulging eyes as his sister unselfconsciously took a - position: 4
looked around.  her eyes met those of gregor on the wall.  perhaps - position: 4
eyebrows, his piercing, dark eyes looked out fresh and alert; his - position: 5
hardly keep his eyes open; his thoughts became too slow for him to - position: 4
slowly shaking his head for a quarter of an hour with his eyes - position: 13
two women took him under the arms he would abruptly open his eyes, - position: 13
head close to the ground so that he could meet her eyes if the - position: 12
expression in her eyes. - position: 4
his eyes in acceptance of his sister's certainty that that was quite - position: 2
her legs stretched out and pressed against each other, her eyes - position: 11
she soon realised what had really happened, opened her eyes wide, - position: 10
example.  grete, who had not taken her eyes from the corpse, said: - position: 8
mr. samsa for his decision.  mr. samsa merely opened his eyes wide - position: 11

diligence:
has been removed, he will certainly work with all the more diligence - position: 12

shone:
electric street lamps shone palely here and there onto the ceiling - position: 4

though:
i'll make the big change.  first of all though, i've got to get up, - position: 9
whatever sacrifice.  at the same time, though, he did not forget to - position: 7
though, even apart from the fact that all the doors were locked? - position: 1
head carefully enough, though, and hit it as he fell; annoyed and in - position: 4
up.  i'm still in bed now.  i'm quite fresh again now, though.  i'm - position: 12
as easy as i'd thought.  i'm quite alright now, though.  it's - position: 10
sound.  they had realised, though, that there was something wrong - position: 5
of any thought for the future.  gregor, though, did think about the - position: 8
gregor, though, had no time to spare for his parents now; the chief - position: 2
any moment.  eventually, though, gregor realised that he had no - position: 4
recent times.  it was so quiet all around too, even though there - position: 11
even though he had been living in it for five years.  hardly aware - position: 2
happened, even though no-one had asked that of her. - position: 3
splendour, even though gregor had later earned so much that he was - position: 3
secret plan to send her to the conservatory next year even though it - position: 12
even though, before, they had seen her as a girl who was somewhat - position: 2
though, she had to be held back by force, which made her call out: - position: 1
was of no use to him at all.  girls of that age, though, do become - position: 13
backwards to the far end of the couch.  in his startlement, though, - position: 12
his father, though, was not in the mood to notice subtleties like - position: 3
staying longer at the table, even though he regularly fell asleep - position: 7
had been sold, even though both mother and sister had been very fond - position: 5
see quite well, though, that there were more reasons than - position: 4
gregor, on the other hand, ought not to be neglected.  now, though, - position: 12
corner.  one time, though, the charwoman left the door to the living - position: 4
though, was offered a seat by one of the gentlemen and sat - leaving - position: 1
no-one noticed him, though.  the family was totally preoccupied with - position: 4
sister should not be forced to stay with him, though, but stay of - position: 10
driving gregor out, even though they were not at all upset and - position: 5
even though she could have checked for herself and could have known - position: 2

strides:
delay, the man actually did take long strides into the front - position: 8

chief:
chief clerk himself.  why did gregor have to be the only one - position: 1
even necessary - did the chief clerk have to come himself, and did - position: 5
suspicious that only the chief clerk could be trusted to have the - position: 5
"something's fallen down in there", said the chief clerk in the room - position: 8
that had happened to him today could ever happen to the chief clerk - position: 12
reply to this question, the chief clerk's firm footsteps in his - position: 6
him know: "gregor, the chief clerk is here."  "yes, i know", said - position: 5
"gregor", said his father now from the room to his left, "the chief - position: 13
then the chief clerk called "good morning,  mr. samsa". "he isn't - position: 3
well", said his mother to the chief clerk, while his father - position: 7
explaining it,  mrs. samsa", said the chief clerk, "i hope it's - position: 7
business considerations."  "can the chief clerk come in to see you - position: 5
chief clerk in, because he was in danger of losing his job and if - position: 1
would seriously have expected him to let the chief clerk in.  it was - position: 9
the chief clerk now raised his voice, "mr. samsa", he called to him, - position: 2
with the chief clerk; the others were being so insistent, and he was - position: 3
quiet so that he could listen to what the chief clerk was saying. - position: 10
"did you understand a word of all that?" the chief clerk asked his - position: 10
chief clerk, with a calmness that was in contrast with his mother's - position: 1
whispering with the chief clerk, or perhaps they were all pressed - position: 4
"listen", said the chief clerk in the next room, "he's turning the - position: 4
pay attention to anything else, when he heard the chief clerk - position: 10
dishevelled from bed despite the chief clerk's being there, looked - position: 6
see", he said to the chief clerk, "that i'm not stubborn and i - position: 6
but the chief clerk had turned away as soon as gregor had started to - position: 3
gregor realised that it was out of the question to let the chief - position: 13
future.  the chief clerk had to be held back, calmed down, convinced - position: 3
the chief clerk was a lover of women, surely she could persuade him; - position: 2
opening; tried to reach the chief clerk on the landing who, - position: 6
completely forgotten the chief clerk for the moment, but could not - position: 4
gregor, though, had no time to spare for his parents now; the chief - position: 13
wanted to be sure of reaching him; the chief clerk must have - position: 9
flight of the chief clerk seemed, unfortunately, to put gregor's - position: 4
controlled, but now, instead of running after the chief clerk - position: 9
gregor's father seized the chief clerk's stick in his right hand - position: 5
(the chief clerk had left it behind on a chair, along with his hat - position: 2
and the chief clerk, but they would appear again in his thoughts, - position: 3
chief executive and director - position: 1

bones:
on an old newspaper.  there were old, half-rotten vegetables; bones - position: 10

fist:
knocking at one of the side doors, gently, but with his fist. - position: 12
"gregor!" shouted his sister, glowering at him and shaking her fist. - position: 11

disturbed:
disturbed, to get dressed, and most of all to have his breakfast. - position: 1
afterwards anyway even if he hadn't been disturbed, as he had had - position: 8
disturbed gregor's sister, but soon, in contrast with the family, - position: 1
politeness that they allowed their peace to be disturbed.  it was - position: 9

uncomfortable:
while the old man in it would sleep, highly uncomfortable but - position: 10

regularly:
staying longer at the table, even though he regularly fell asleep - position: 9

gutenberg-tm's:
assistance they need, is critical to reaching project gutenberg-tm's - position: 9

sleep:
quite sad.  "how about if i sleep a little bit longer and forget all - position: 7
sleep.  other travelling salesmen live a life of luxury.  for - position: 1
possible to quietly sleep through that furniture-rattling noise? - position: 4
from his deep and coma-like sleep.  he would have woken soon - position: 6
enough sleep and felt fully rested.  but he had the impression that - position: 2
light sleep, although he frequently woke from it in alarm because of - position: 2
parents would sleep for a little while then as well, and gregor's - position: 3
his father would go to sleep in his chair; his mother and sister - position: 6
that he had been dozing - and then he would go back to sleep again - position: 13
while the old man in it would sleep, highly uncomfortable but - position: 8
couldn't sleep properly where he was and he really had to get his - position: 2
sleep if he was to be up at six to get to work.  but since he had - position: 1
flat and force us to sleep on the streets.  father, look, just - position: 6
arrived and from then on it was impossible to sleep in peace - she - position: 10

response:
with him, and were ready to help.  the first response to his - position: 10

ready:
sections.  the bedding was hardly able to cover it and seemed ready - position: 12
both sides: "i'm ready, now", making an effort to remove all the - position: 4
with him, and were ready to help.  the first response to his - position: 5
always ready to serve and expecting to hear the voice of his - position: 2

64-6221541:
number is 64-6221541.  its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at - position: 3

lethargic:
eating and lay lethargic in the same place, his sister slowly turned - position: 4

landed:
something to hold onto, landed on his numerous little legs.  hardly - position: 5
they were left where they landed when they had first been thrown - position: 6
and landed loudly on the floor. - position: 2

strike:
until he heard the clock tower strike three in the morning.  he - position: 7

re-use:
re-use it under the terms of the project gutenberg license included - position: 1
re-use it under the terms of the project gutenberg license included - position: 1

tolerate:
kitchen.  unnecessary clutter was something they could not tolerate, - position: 9

somewhat:
even though, before, they had seen her as a girl who was somewhat - position: 13
middle of the three gentlemen somewhat disconcerted, and he smiled - position: 6

given:
think about i'd have given in my notice a long time ago, i'd have - position: 5
hours of rest have given me strength.  you don't need to wait, sir; - position: 5
although there was no longer much warm affection given in return. - position: 9
we've given up all hope of improvement and we're abandoning him to - position: 2
couch as if she had given up everything and stayed there immobile. - position: 6
one in the middle had produced a newspaper, given a page to each of - position: 9
research.  they may be modified and printed and given away--you may do - position: 9

accept:
company, accuse his parents of having a lazy son, and accept the - position: 11
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property - position: 2

thrift:
this unexpected thrift and caution.  he could actually have used - position: 3

protruding:
speak, and, with protruding lips, only stared back at him over his - position: 4

wooden:
outside through the wooden door, as his mother was satisfied with - position: 4
she quickly dropped it all into a bin, closed it with its wooden - position: 13

carried:
not her bare hands - and carried it out.  gregor was extremely - position: 6
lid, and carried everything out.  she had hardly turned her back - position: 3
father; the sixteen year old maid had carried on bravely since the - position: 8
to.  they carried out absolutely everything that the world expects - position: 3
movement; he carried threads, hairs, and remains of food about on - position: 3

anticipation:
continually rubbed them together in gleeful anticipation of a loud - position: 7

defend:
and it's almost impossible to defend yourself from that sort of - position: 6

underneath:
broad to get it all underneath. - position: 6

simply:
unfortunately as you like, we simply have to overcome it because of - position: 6
recognise that; but there simply is no time of year to do no - position: 5
help, his appeals were simply not understood, however much he humbly - position: 5
listening.  there were times when he simply became too tired to - position: 7
mother until later and was simply glad that she had come.  "you can - position: 6
their tears would mingle, or they would simply sit there staring - position: 8
as well as he could but she had simply decided to leave him to it. - position: 9

threads:
movement; he carried threads, hairs, and remains of food about on - position: 4

mother:
somebody called - it was his mother - "it's quarter to seven. - position: 6
himself with saying: "yes, mother, yes, thank-you, i'm getting up - position: 5
outside through the wooden door, as his mother was satisfied with - position: 8
well", said his mother to the chief clerk, while his father - position: 4
called his mother, who was already in tears, "he could be seriously - position: 3
"mother?" his sister called from the other side.  they communicated - position: 1
have been calling to him, his father and his mother too: "well done, - position: 10
a steady and invisible force.  gregor's mother, her hair still - position: 7
as he crouched there on the floor.  his mother was not far away in - position: 9
"mother, mother", said gregor gently, looking up at her.  he had - position: 1
"mother, mother", said gregor gently, looking up at her.  he had - position: 2
flow of coffee.  that set his mother screaming anew, she fled from - position: 7
across the room, despite the chilly weather, gregor's mother had - position: 9
gregor's mother, and sometimes to his sister, but there was now not - position: 2
mother certainly did not want him to starve either, but perhaps it - position: 1
gregor's mother to let her go without delay.  it was not very clear - position: 2
of an hour, tearfully thanking gregor's mother for her dismissal as - position: 7
now gregor's sister also had to help his mother with the cooking; - position: 9
explained to gregor's mother and sister what their finances and - position: 4
these matters himself and partly because gregor's mother did not - position: 8
very slow and clumsy.  would gregor's elderly mother now have to go - position: 8
them, father and mother, would often both wait outside the door of - position: 4
his mother also wanted to go in and visit gregor relatively soon but - position: 2
that maybe it would be better if his mother came in, not every day - position: 9
gregor's wish to see his mother was soon realised.  out of - position: 6
gregor's father was not there and fetch his mother to help her.  as - position: 9
she approached the room, gregor could hear his mother express her - position: 9
was alright; and only then did she let her mother enter.  gregor had - position: 10
mother until later and was simply glad that she had come.  "you can - position: 1
labouring at it for fifteen minutes or more his mother said it would - position: 10
hearing these words from his mother made gregor realise that the - position: 6
mother, unheard for so long, that had shaken him out of it.  nothing - position: 1
so she refused to let her mother dissuade her.  gregor's mother - position: 7
so she refused to let her mother dissuade her.  gregor's mother - position: 11
considerate as he could, but, unfortunately, it was his mother who - position: 10
without, of course, moving it an inch.  his mother was not used to - position: 9
soon; grete had put her arm around her mother and was nearly - position: 9
only because her mother was there, she remained calm, bent her face - position: 4
she wanted to take her mother somewhere safe and then chase him down - position: 6
but grete's words had made her mother quite worried, she stepped to - position: 7
smelling salts to bring her mother out of her faint; gregor wanted - position: 6
she could and ran with them in to her mother; she slammed the door - position: 10
shut with her foot.  so now gregor was shut out from his mother, - position: 13
stay with his mother; there was nothing for him to do but wait; and, - position: 4
his overcoat between gregor and his mother, would always labour his - position: 7
screaming, his mother ran out in front of her in her blouse (as his - position: 3
his father would go to sleep in his chair; his mother and sister - position: 11
would urge each other to be quiet; his mother, bent deeply under the - position: 9
sometimes his father would wake up and say to gregor's mother - position: 11
while mother and sister would exchange a tired grin. - position: 2
efforts of gregor's mother and sister to look after it.  gregor - position: 4
as soon as it struck ten, gregor's mother would speak gently to his - position: 8
chair for his bed.  then, however much mother and sister would - position: 8
closed and refusing to get up.  gregor's mother would tug at his - position: 8
leave her work to help her mother, but nothing would have any effect - position: 7
on by himself while gregor's mother would throw down her needle and - position: 6
work; everything else was looked after by gregor's mother on top of - position: 9
had been sold, even though both mother and sister had been very fond - position: 7
breakfast, his mother sacrificed herself by washing clothes for - position: 3
to bed gregor's mother and sister would now leave their work where - position: 4
it was and sit close together, cheek to cheek; his mother would - position: 11
gregor's room was for her and her alone.  gregor's mother did once - position: 10
and he lay flat on the couch, bitter and immobile.  but his mother - position: 13
to the right of his mother, accused her of not leaving the cleaning - position: 6
while his mother tried to draw his father, who was beside himself - position: 3
even so his mother ought certainly not to have taken her place. - position: 4
with his father and mother, they unfolded the serviettes and picked - position: 5
up their knives and forks.  gregor's mother immediately appeared in - position: 7
kitchen.  it was to his satisfaction, and gregor's mother and - position: 9
gregor's father soon appeared with the music stand, his mother with - position: 10
hand pushed in between two buttons on his uniform coat; his mother, - position: 12
his sister began to play; father and mother paid close attention, - position: 8
now", he said, raising his hand and glancing at gregor's mother and - position: 11
"father, mother", said his sister, hitting the table with her hand - position: 2
mother, who still had not had time to catch her breath, began to - position: 1
gregor's sister rushed to his mother and put her hand on her - position: 6
speaking only to her father, as her mother was too occupied with - position: 8
the face of her mother, and she wiped them away with mechanical hand - position: 5
abandoned his mother as she pushed herself vigorously out of her - position: 3
chair as if more willing to sacrifice her own mother than stay - position: 10
looked at him in unhappy silence.  his mother lay in her chair with - position: 8
that his mother had now fallen completely asleep. - position: 3

hearer:
of echo which made them unclear, leaving the hearer unsure whether - position: 9

whenever:
instance, whenever i go back to the guest house during the morning - position: 2
to much of what was said in the next rooms, and whenever he heard - position: 12
violin.  whenever they began to talk of the need to earn money, - position: 2
unpleasant for him, now, whenever she entered the room.  no sooner - position: 5
enthusiastic about things and feel they must get their way whenever - position: 11
instead of letting her disturb him for no reason whenever she felt - position: 10
whenever any copy of a project gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the - position: 1

specified:
license as specified in paragraph 1.e.1. - position: 3
address specified in section 4, "information about donations to - position: 2

elect:
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a - position: 5

rumination:
sister.  he remained in this state of empty and peaceful rumination - position: 11

checked:
even though she could have checked for herself and could have known - position: 6

apprentices:
the salesmen and the apprentices, that stupid teaboy, two or three - position: 5

wept:
and wept so that his powerful chest shook. - position: 2

fourteen:
for the first fourteen days, gregor's parents could not bring - position: 4

reasons:
see quite well, though, that there were more reasons than - position: 9

bowed:
bowed once with his cap in his hand and did his round of the table. - position: 1
from the stand, took their sticks from the holder, bowed without a - position: 10

legally:
prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax - position: 4

coughs:
different from the way that a human coughs and he was no longer sure - position: 8

bearing:
respect for his uniform and bearing.  the door to the entrance hall - position: 6

plates:
the plates left by the three gentlemen after their meal, and - position: 2

anywhere:
this ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with - position: 9
that they had no room for anywhere else, and there were now many - position: 7
anywhere near gregor.  she rushed over to behind her father, who had - position: 1
this ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with - position: 9

seen:
out of the bed, but he had never seen this lower part, and could not - position: 9
open before he could be seen.  he had first to slowly turn himself - position: 6
only half of his body could be seen, along with his head above it - position: 8
hospital - could be seen quite clearly with the austere and regular - position: 4
even though, before, they had seen her as a girl who was somewhat - position: 6
time and whether, perhaps, any slight improvement could be seen. - position: 10
consideration for his parents, gregor wanted to avoid being seen at - position: 10
come in, he can't be seen", said his sister, obviously leading her - position: 6
where he could not be seen from the living room, he could watch the - position: 6
kept nodding it could be seen that he was not sleeping at all. - position: 6
had first seen him.  his disappointment at the failure of his plan, - position: 3
gregor? if it were gregor he would have seen long ago that it's not - position: 9
body was indeed completely dried up and flat, they had not seen it - position: 12

pressure:
which, under pressure from her father, the three gentlemen were more - position: 3

hands:
hands were quietly moving forwards, it was even later than half - position: 1
he would have used his arms and his hands to push himself up; but - position: 9
the entrance hall, clapping his hands, "get a locksmith here, now!" - position: 6
uncertainly round the living room, covered his eyes with his hands - position: 11
ridiculously, was holding on to the banister with both hands; but - position: 10
pulled open a window, leant far out of it and pressed her hands to - position: 13
not her bare hands - and carried it out.  gregor was extremely - position: 4
put his hands in his trouser pockets, pushing back the bottom of his - position: 3
ability to see anything - her hands behind his father's head begging - position: 6
room where, despite her mothers raised and imploring hands, she - position: 9
while she just stood there in amazement with her hands crossed in - position: 10
one on each side, to the movements of her hands.  drawn in by the - position: 10
hands in their pockets and come up far too close behind the music - position: 1
suddenly interrupted.  she had let her hands drop and let violin and - position: 7
hands, and fell into it; it looked as if he was stretching himself - position: 1
hands in front of gregor's sister as if to protect her. - position: 1
hands in the pockets of their well-worn coats. it was now quite - position: 1
sweetly.  the other two held their hands behind their backs and - position: 7
hallway; his two friends had stopped rubbing their hands some time - position: 9

impose:
impose on them. - position: 1

pointless:
that was the sort of totally pointless thing that went through his - position: 7

sought:
gregor fell immediately over and, with a little scream as he sought - position: 12

sallied:
catching their breath, he sallied out, changed direction four times - position: 5

woman:
and the hand that held it.  the woman most likely meant to fetch the - position: 8

moreover:
moving in different directions, and which he was moreover unable to - position: 9
especially if it was dirty.  they had moreover brought most of their - position: 8

grey-black:
grey-black building on the other side of the street - which was a - position: 1

bravely:
father; the sixteen year old maid had carried on bravely since the - position: 10

taking:
make his voice as clear as possible, he coughed a little, but taking - position: 13
without taking his eyes off him.  he moved very gradually, as if - position: 2
pushed it from its place, his sister always taking on the heaviest - position: 9
even more, and for another thing it wasn't even sure that taking the - position: 12
taking the furniture away, won't it seem like we're showing that - position: 1
his room out; taking away everything that was dear to him; they had - position: 4
now, without even taking the time for careful aim, threw one apple - position: 4
as when it was new.  after they had come back from taking his father - position: 12
think of taking over the family's affairs, just like before, the - position: 3

visit:
his mother also wanted to go in and visit gregor relatively soon but - position: 9
particular state visit http://pglaf.org - position: 3
donations.  to donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate - position: 5

instance:
instance, whenever i go back to the guest house during the morning - position: 1
instance, it only took him two or three evenings, you'll be amazed - position: 1

motionless:
still staring out the window, motionless, and just where he would be - position: 6

rock:
method was more of a game than an effort, all he had to do was rock - position: 16

claim:
doctor's recommendation not to make any claim as the doctor believed - position: 7
located in the united states, we do not claim a right to prevent you from - position: 9

rested:
legs.  he rested there a little while to recover from the effort - position: 3
enough sleep and felt fully rested.  but he had the impression that - position: 6

plaintively:
gregor!"  at the other side door his sister came plaintively: - position: 10

overview:
it.  but you, sir, you have a better overview than the rest of the - position: 9
staff, in fact, if i can say this in confidence, a better overview - position: 13

yet:
service gregor had never once yet been ill.  his boss would - position: 6
that yet.  gregor was still there and had not the slightest - position: 2
cigarettes upwards from their mouth and noses.  yet gregor's sister - position: 8

sofa:
struggling for breath on the sofa by the open window.  would his - position: 6
onto the cool, leather sofa next to it, as he became quite hot with - position: 5
bank, and threw it in an arc right across the room onto the sofa, - position: 14

leapt:
expected something, as he leapt down several steps at once and - position: 5

bottles:
was looking into various bottles, he startled her when she turned - position: 5
now, without delaying any longer, grete took hold of all the bottles - position: 12

round:
certainly come round with the doctor from the medical insurance - position: 3
somebody will have come round from work to ask what's happened to me - position: 5
clerk has come round and wants to know why you didn't leave on the - position: 4
round he turned around the lock with it, only holding himself - position: 1
uncertainly round the living room, covered his eyes with his hands - position: 2
been allowed to turn round he would have been back in his room - position: 5
himself round.  it went very slowly, but perhaps his father was able - position: 2
he had nearly finished turning round, still listening to that - position: 6
sister came in and looked round to see that everything in the room - position: 6
came back first while grete in the next room had her arms round the - position: 13
to her so that she would not look round and said, albeit hurriedly - position: 9
round; a bottle fell to the ground and broke; a splinter cut - position: 1
slightly.  in this way they went round the room several times - position: 7
round again, and she calmly put the chair back in the corner. - position: 1
bowed once with his cap in his hand and did his round of the table. - position: 12
his sister.  all he had done was begin to turn round so that he - position: 11
startling as his pain-wracked condition meant that turning round - position: 9
floor.  he stopped and looked round.  they seemed to have realised - position: 6
"maybe now they'll let me turn round", thought gregor and went back - position: 7
finished turning round he began to move straight ahead.  he was - position: 3
not turn it all the way round as he felt his neck becoming stiff, - position: 7
"what now, then?", gregor asked himself as he looked round in the - position: 10
the three gentlemen stepped out of their room and looked round in - position: 11
round sharply and left, slamming the door terribly as she went. - position: 1
other.  mr. samsa twisted round in his chair to look at them and sat - position: 5

connection:
connection with their leader.  once there, all three took their hats - position: 1

suffering:
indeed suffering enough. - position: 2

talking:
there at your desk, talking down at your subordinates from up there, - position: 5
to leave him now in peace instead of disturbing him with talking at - position: 12
they  withdrew back to the window with their heads sunk and talking - position: 12
while they were talking,  mr. and  mrs. samsa were struck, almost - position: 4

man:
time ago.  the office assistant was the boss's man, spineless, and - position: 9
him like a wild man.  gregor had never had any practice in moving - position: 5
that really his father? the same tired man as used to be laying - position: 8
while the old man in it would sleep, highly uncomfortable but - position: 4
straight line towards the man.  at first, he stood there still, - position: 5
delay, the man actually did take long strides into the front - position: 3
it they agreed that it would soon be time to find a good man for - position: 14

leader:
connection with their leader.  once there, all three took their hats - position: 4

coffee:
to notice that the coffee pot had been knocked over and a gush of - position: 5
coffee was pouring down onto the carpet. - position: 1
flow of coffee.  that set his mother screaming anew, she fled from - position: 3

disclaimers:
1.f.5.  some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied - position: 7

value:
with his antennae - of which he was now beginning to learn the value - position: 13

housekeeper:
she could send the housekeeper for it, but then his father would - position: 5

experience:
experience, and gregor pushed himself into the doorway without - position: 1
experience of his feeding than being told about it, and perhaps his - position: 1

preparation:
have allowed gregor the time to get himself upright as preparation - position: 11

believed:
doctor's recommendation not to make any claim as the doctor believed - position: 11

stare:
stare out of it.  he had used to feel a great sense of freedom from - position: 1

top:
top of that there's the curse of travelling, worries about making - position: 1
so then he tried to get the top part of his body out of the bed - position: 8
work; everything else was looked after by gregor's mother on top of - position: 11

abandoning:
intention of abandoning his family.  for the time being he just lay - position: 3
we've given up all hope of improvement and we're abandoning him to - position: 10

memory:
provincial hotel, a tender memory that appeared and disappeared - position: 5

sunday:
walk together on a sunday or public holiday wrapped up tightly in - position: 5

caught:
"they're not opening the door", gregor said to himself, caught in - position: 10
curious to learn what they would say when they caught sight of him. - position: 10
suddenly caught by the picture on the wall - which was already - position: 2

listening:
against the door and listening. - position: 5
he had nearly finished turning round, still listening to that - position: 8
listening.  there were times when he simply became too tired to - position: 1
continue listening, when his head would fall wearily against the - position: 2
listening to the evening conversation about what price they had - position: 1
before and had been listening to what was being said.  now they - position: 5

anxious:
possible and with frequent anxious glances at his father, to turn - position: 5

limply:
bow hang limply for a while but continued to look at the music as if - position: 3

poked:
of the room than gregor poked his head out from under the couch to - position: 6
success with that she tried to make a nuisance of herself and poked - position: 13

faint:
smelling salts to bring her mother out of her faint; gregor wanted - position: 10

responsible:
bad had happened, that he was responsible for some act of violence. - position: 7

voice:
didn't you want to go somewhere?"  that gentle voice! gregor was - position: 9
shocked when he heard his own voice answering, it could hardly be - position: 7
recognised as the voice he had had before.  as if from deep inside - position: 4
now."  the change in gregor's voice probably could not be noticed - position: 6
while he called again with a warning deepness in his voice: "gregor! - position: 11
strangeness from his voice by enunciating very carefully and putting - position: 4
doubt that the change in his voice was nothing more than the first - position: 7
gregor to himself; but without daring to raise his voice loud enough - position: 10
the chief clerk now raised his voice, "mr. samsa", he called to him, - position: 7
gregor spoke just now?"  "that was the voice of an animal", said the - position: 8
make his voice as clear as possible, he coughed a little, but taking - position: 3
be sat with his evening paper, reading it out in a loud voice to - position: 13
not know) to hear not even the tone of her voice, as she was - position: 11
come very close to forgetting, and it had only been the voice of his - position: 12
and with a tremor in her voice: "come on, let's go back in the - position: 7
subdued voice, and openly pressed her face into his chest: "mother's - position: 2
always ready to serve and expecting to hear the voice of his - position: 10

light:
room being carefully shut had woken him.  the light from the - position: 9
light sleep, although he frequently woke from it in alarm because of - position: 1
on the floor; he could breathe more freely; his body had a light - position: 13
family in the light of the dinner table and listen to their - position: 4
rented the room came in in the evening and the light was put on. - position: 11
watched as it slowly began to get light everywhere outside the - position: 8
light in the room. - position: 1

glass:
against its glass, it held him firmly and felt good on his hot - position: 3
fast to the glass and had to pull himself off by force; then he, - position: 4

pauses:
long pauses between each, individual word.  his father went back to - position: 2

lodged:
it, hit squarely and lodged in his back; gregor wanted to drag - position: 5
no-one dared to remove the apple lodged in gregor's flesh, so it - position: 7

reminder:
remained there as a visible reminder of his injury.  he had suffered - position: 6

ii:
ii - position: 1

gross:
- you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from - position: 10

grand:
planned with a grand announcement of it on christmas day. - position: 4

paid:
his sister began to play; father and mother paid close attention, - position: 9
if you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a project - position: 3
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.e.8. - position: 5
must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you - position: 3
- you provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies - position: 9
money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the - position: 2
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a - position: 10

bedpost:
bedpost, and learned from the burning pain he felt that the lower - position: 1

convinced:
understand very well; over the years, they had become convinced that - position: 10
future.  the chief clerk had to be held back, calmed down, convinced - position: 12
convinced that he did not understand her words, she added "and by - position: 1

walk:
walk together on a sunday or public holiday wrapped up tightly in - position: 1
and to go for a walk; not only had they earned a break from work but - position: 6

codes:
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by - position: 5

sounding:
that; "ah!", he shouted as he came in, sounding as if he were both - position: 9

discard:
sold, the family did not wish to discard.  all these things found - position: 8

snapping:
help himself snapping in the air with his jaws at the sight of the - position: 3

depended:
and finally won over; the future of gregor and his family depended - position: 12

newspaper:
and overcoat), picked up a large newspaper from the table with his - position: 7
on an old newspaper.  there were old, half-rotten vegetables; bones - position: 4
newspaper.  quickly one after another, his eyes watering with - position: 1
one in the middle had produced a newspaper, given a page to each of - position: 8

view:
enveloped in morning fog and the view had little confidence or cheer - position: 7
used to curse the ever-present view of the hospital across the - position: 6
precaution so that no-one would have to suffer the view into - position: 10
trying to block their view of gregor with his body.  now they did - position: 5

strikes:
but then he said to himself: "before it strikes quarter past seven - position: 9

hoping:
would sometimes ask his father whether he would like a beer, hoping - position: 12

insistent:
with the chief clerk; the others were being so insistent, and he was - position: 10
one day - were painfully insistent on things' being tidy.  this - position: 5

transcription:
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual - position: 3

secret:
there had been some secret prohibition on leaving the room.  it was - position: 5
only in secret.  for two whole days, all the talk at every mealtime - position: 3
secret plan to send her to the conservatory next year even though it - position: 1

perversity:
couch.  it was more than childish perversity, of course, or the - position: 7

magazine:
illustrated magazine and housed in a nice, gilded frame.  it showed - position: 2

heads:
they  withdrew back to the window with their heads sunk and talking - position: 9

outdated:
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  many small donations - position: 5

waiting:
waiting to save him. - position: 1
ahead as if waiting for something.  and indeed, his two friends - position: 4
been in so much of a rush.  she had been standing there waiting and - position: 13

#5200]:
release date: august 16, 2005 [ebook #5200] - position: 7

hospital:
hospital - could be seen quite clearly with the austere and regular - position: 1
used to curse the ever-present view of the hospital across the - position: 9

gave:
slid down again, but he finally gave himself one last swing and - position: 7
but he no longer gave any attention to it.  now he let himself fall - position: 5
ground.  then his father gave him a hefty shove from behind which - position: 5
come into gregor's room any more until morning; that gave him plenty - position: 10
spying out from under the sheet; he gave up the chance to see his - position: 8
cleaner, and to prove it she gave gregor's body another shove with - position: 7

volunteers:
1.f.1.  project gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable - position: 4
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production, - position: 6
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from - position: 8
volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the - position: 1
volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the - position: 7
fairbanks, ak, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered - position: 6

rush:
seven; if he were to catch that he would have to rush like mad and - position: 12
although he did feel a terrible urge to rush forward from under the - position: 9
by surprise, no-one was chasing him but he began to rush to and fro - position: 11
sometimes to stop and take a rest.  no-one was making him rush any - position: 12
been in so much of a rush.  she had been standing there waiting and - position: 7

nobody's:
accusations you're making; nobody's ever said a word to me about any - position: 4

concentrated:
concentrated on crawling as fast as he could and hardly noticed that - position: 1

march:
was already the end of march, after all. - position: 6

consisting:
seventeen, her life up till then had been very enviable, consisting - position: 11

maintaining:
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt - position: 8

2002:
first posted: may 13, 2002 - position: 5
copyright (c) 2002 david wyllie. - position: 3

call:
little legs would find a use.  should he really call for help - position: 10
though, she had to be held back by force, which made her call out: - position: 13
first she would call to him as she did so with words that she - position: 4
it, but i can.  i don't want to call this monster my brother, all i - position: 9

location:
gregor, one that was in a better location and, most of all, more - position: 8

country:
open country outside the town.  they had the tram, filled with warm - position: 2
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement - position: 5
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the united - position: 9

across:
after a while he had already moved so far across that it would have - position: 10
across gregor's room.  "you'll have to go for the doctor straight - position: 1
across the room, despite the chilly weather, gregor's mother had - position: 1
used to curse the ever-present view of the hospital across the - position: 10
bank, and threw it in an arc right across the room onto the sofa, - position: 9
ancient invalid and it took him long, long minutes to crawl across - position: 12
at him a little, and only when she found she could shove him across - position: 14
the broom, sending it sideways across the floor.  mrs. samsa made a - position: 6

maid's:
some nonsensical hope.  but then of course, the maid's firm steps - position: 9

groaning:
hardly had the two women pushed the chest of drawers, groaning, out - position: 11

refund:
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or - position: 9
- you provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies - position: 5
- you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.f.3, a full refund of any - position: 10
of replacement or refund" described in paragraph 1.f.3, the project - position: 4
1.f.3.  limited right of replacement or refund - if you discover a - position: 7
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a - position: 3
refund.  if you received the work electronically, the person or entity - position: 1
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  if the second copy - position: 9
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further - position: 8
1.f.4.  except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth - position: 10

bleeding:
bleeding, deep into his room.  the door was slammed shut with the - position: 1

separated:
amazed at the great distance that separated him from his room, and - position: 7

ticking:
and he looked over at the alarm clock, ticking on the chest of - position: 9

brief:
made her usual brief look in on gregor and at first found nothing - position: 4

driving:
driving gregor out, even though they were not at all upset and - position: 1

strong:
if somebody came to help him.  two strong people - he had his father - position: 8
was, of course, made up for with a very strong jaw; using the jaw, - position: 10
her face.  a strong draught of air flew in from the street towards - position: 4
of the coat his strong double-chin emerged; under the bushy - position: 5

strongly:
possible, he felt that he must go away even more strongly than his - position: 11

gbnewby@pglaf.org:
gbnewby@pglaf.org - position: 1

beginning:
with his antennae - of which he was now beginning to learn the value - position: 9
beginning of this work. - position: 1
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work. - position: 9

timorous:
immediately by the door, resolved either to bring the timorous - position: 10

notches:
were concealed behind carefully carved furniture full of notches and - position: 9

keep:
done in bed", gregor said to himself, "so don't keep trying to do - position: 10
been hard for him to keep his balance if he rocked too hard.  the - position: 6
gregor", they should have cried, "keep at it, keep hold of the - position: 6
gregor", they should have cried, "keep at it, keep hold of the - position: 9
trembling shoulders as he left.  he did not keep still for a moment - position: 9
had even asked to be allowed to keep the kitchen locked at all times - position: 8
would not be able to keep up this running about for long, as for - position: 6
hardly keep his eyes open; his thoughts became too slow for him to - position: 2
importune him with little reproaches and warnings he would keep - position: 10
all the more reason to keep himself hidden as he was covered in the - position: 6
her not to keep slamming the doors but with her strength and in her - position: 4
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up - position: 11
keep ebooks in compliance with any particular paper edition. - position: 1

contrary:
as an enemy.  on the contrary, as a family there was a duty to - position: 6
the contrary", said the middle gentleman, "would the young lady not - position: 2
here i will, of course, pay nothing at all, on the contrary i will - position: 12

refusing:
closed and refusing to get up.  gregor's mother would tug at his - position: 3

laugh:
respect for.  "yes", she answered, and broke into a friendly laugh - position: 11

weather:
gregor then turned to look out the window at the dull weather. - position: 12
across the room, despite the chilly weather, gregor's mother had - position: 7

obsessed:
seemed so obsessed with what he was doing that he forgot all the - position: 3

thin:
to slide off any moment.  his many legs, pitifully thin compared - position: 10
"just look how thin he was.  he didn't eat anything for so long. - position: 4

electric:
electric street lamps shone palely here and there onto the ceiling - position: 1
knocking into each other as if they had electric motors.  an apple - position: 9

loose:
gutenberg-tm ebooks with only a loose network of volunteer support. - position: 6

ago:
think about i'd have given in my notice a long time ago, i'd have - position: 12
time ago.  the office assistant was the boss's man, spineless, and - position: 2
gregor? if it were gregor he would have seen long ago that it's not - position: 11

nap:
out for his usual evening nap but from the uncontrolled way his head - position: 6

whisper:
sleeve, whisper endearments into his ear, gregor's sister would - position: 2

studies:
reads the paper or studies train timetables.  his idea of relaxation - position: 5

bitter:
and he lay flat on the couch, bitter and immobile.  but his mother - position: 8

holding:
there he let go of it and threw himself onto the door, holding - position: 13
round he turned around the lock with it, only holding himself - position: 10
ridiculously, was holding on to the banister with both hands; but - position: 3
with a few air holes in it; the main thing holding the family back - position: 11
him.  she happened to be holding the long broom in her hand, so she - position: 6

peeved:
and, clearly peeved, called out "cheerio then, everyone", turned - position: 3

requirements:
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.e.1 - position: 8
states.  compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a - position: 3
with these requirements.  we do not solicit donations in locations - position: 3
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition - position: 6

unexpected:
this unexpected thrift and caution.  he could actually have used - position: 2
unexpected confidence she had recently acquired, that made her - position: 1

aching:
that his entire body was aching, but the pain seemed to be slowly - position: 6

struggling:
struggling for breath on the sofa by the open window.  would his - position: 1
struggling for breath where she was, and ran into the next room - position: 1

fixed:
to get through.  he was merely fixed on the idea that gregor should - position: 7

punished:
was to be punished still more for what she had done, as hardly had - position: 4

recognise:
recognise that; but there simply is no time of year to do no - position: 1

functions:
of wearing them at functions and celebrations.  but the loudest - position: 5

unusually:
but nonetheless lifted his feet unusually high.  gregor was amazed - position: 6

traces:
all, left traces of the adhesive from his feet as he crawled about - - position: 3

processing:
word processing or hypertext form.  however, if you provide access to or - position: 2

well-worn:
hands in the pockets of their well-worn coats. it was now quite - position: 7

forced:
his life.  for some reason, the tall, empty room where he was forced - position: 13
unpleasantness that he, in his present condition, was forced to - position: 9
his body pressed to the floor, he was forced to admit to himself - position: 9
he could crawl about, he was forced to, but later on he came to - position: 7
sister should not be forced to stay with him, though, but stay of - position: 5

family's:
think of taking over the family's affairs, just like before, the - position: 6

incomplete:
"defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or - position: 8

overcoat:
and overcoat), picked up a large newspaper from the table with his - position: 2
his overcoat between gregor and his mother, would always labour his - position: 2

derive:
- you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from - position: 13

scattered:
fairbanks, ak, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered - position: 10

destroyed:
destroyed the peace they had only just gained.  they got up and went - position: 1

fifteen:
would be extremely strained and suspicious as in fifteen years of - position: 9
labouring at it for fifteen minutes or more his mother said it would - position: 5

necessary:
even necessary - did the chief clerk have to come himself, and did - position: 2
if she did not think this sheet was necessary then all she had to do - position: 9
back into his room without delay, that it would not be necessary to - position: 12
life, that his father thought it necessary to always be extremely - position: 7
give more attention to gregor than was absolutely necessary? the - position: 9

desk:
off his desk! and it's a funny sort of business to be sitting up - position: 3
there at your desk, talking down at your subordinates from up there, - position: 4
drawers and the desk.  now, this was not something that she would be - position: 4
removing not only the chest of drawers and the desk, as she had - position: 10
could do without if he had to, but the writing desk had to stay. - position: 11
now they threatened to remove the writing desk with its place - position: 8
clearly worn into the floor, the desk where he had done his homework - position: 7
so, while the women were leant against the desk in the other room - position: 9
strangers, his sister ran back and forth behind her desk at the - position: 10

look:
gregor then turned to look out the window at the dull weather. - position: 5
wouldn't have to look at the floundering legs, and only stopped when - position: 4
eyes to the window and look out as clearly as he could, but - position: 6
our employer as well as having to look after my parents and my - position: 8
sheet where it was.  gregor even thought he glimpsed a look of - position: 11
to her so that she would not look round and said, albeit hurriedly - position: 8
long uniform coat, and, with look of determination, walked towards - position: 6
efforts of gregor's mother and sister to look after it.  gregor - position: 8
look at them one after the other and say: "what a life! this is what - position: 1
mood to look after his family, he was filled with simple rage about - position: 3
slightly every evening and morning and look briefly in on him.  at - position: 7
dung-beetle!", or "look at the old dung-beetle there!"  gregor never - position: 3
stand to look at all the notes being played, and they must have - position: 3
bow hang limply for a while but continued to look at the music as if - position: 10
humanly possible to look after it and be patient, i don't think - position: 4
flat and force us to sleep on the streets.  father, look, just - position: 11
look", she suddenly screamed, "he's starting again!"   in her alarm, - position: 1
made her usual brief look in on gregor and at first found nothing - position: 5
'ave a look at this, it's dead, just lying there, stone dead!" - position: 3
"just look how thin he was.  he didn't eat anything for so long. - position: 2
he do anything to make them look away. - position: 7
other.  mr. samsa twisted round in his chair to look at them and sat - position: 10

sank:
towards gregor and sank down onto the floor into her skirts that - position: 4
window too.  then, without his willing it, his head sank down - position: 10

wisdom:
wisdom to investigate it? and more because these thoughts had made - position: 1

bedrooms:
doors and shout loudly into the darkness of the bedrooms: "come and - position: 10

extreme:
put into extreme danger.  that was something his parents did not - position: 3

unclear:
of echo which made them unclear, leaving the hearer unsure whether - position: 6

crawl:
not give him much room to crawl about, it was hard to just lie - position: 7
crawl around unimpeded in any direction, but it would also have let - position: 1
furniture made it difficult for him to crawl about mindlessly that - position: 8
crawl about in, whereas the furniture, as far as anyone could see, - position: 1
oppressed with anxiety and self-reproach, he began to crawl about, - position: 9
ancient invalid and it took him long, long minutes to crawl across - position: 11
he could crawl about, he was forced to, but later on he came to - position: 3

confirmed:
editions, all of which are confirmed as public domain in the u.s. - position: 6

imaginable:
imaginable way of transferring gregor to the new address.  he could - position: 1

individual:
long pauses between each, individual word.  his father went back to - position: 5
falling, now throwing down large, individual droplets which hit the - position: 6
gutenberg-tm electronic works.  nearly all the individual works in the - position: 7
individual work is in the public domain in the united states and you are - position: 1
this particular work is one of the few copyrighted individual works - position: 10
1.e.2.  if an individual project gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived - position: 4
1.e.3.  if an individual project gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted - position: 4

unkempt:
normally unkempt white hair was combed down painfully close to his - position: 2

sit:
it was and sit close together, cheek to cheek; his mother would - position: 4
when he was in the dark again, they would sit in the next room and - position: 10
their tears would mingle, or they would simply sit there staring - position: 9
courtesy towards the three gentlemen, did not even dare to sit on - position: 11
her own free will; she would sit beside him on the couch with her - position: 7

1.e.6:
1.e.6.  you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary, - position: 1

textile:
between its four familiar walls.  a collection of textile samples - position: 9

lighter:
meanwhile the day had become much lighter; part of the endless, - position: 7

men's:
the men's intentions and as they leaned over the landing they saw how - position: 2

turned:
gregor then turned to look out the window at the dull weather. - position: 3
bed, perhaps caused by lying awkwardly, but that had always turned - position: 11
imagine what it looked like; it turned out to be too hard to move; - position: 7
pain, he turned it and rubbed it against the carpet. - position: 3
attention to the pain he was causing himself.  as the key turned - position: 12
round he turned around the lock with it, only holding himself - position: 3
but the chief clerk had turned away as soon as gregor had started to - position: 6
turned his head his father merely stamped his foot all the harder. - position: 1
hissing, he made a mistake and turned himself back a little the way - position: 7
because of that, but he turned, almost against his own will, away - position: 6
her, she hurried out again and even turned the key in the lock so - position: 8
eating and lay lethargic in the same place, his sister slowly turned - position: 12
lid, and carried everything out.  she had hardly turned her back - position: 9
certainly be taken away by no-one.  he turned his head to face the - position: 8
was looking into various bottles, he startled her when she turned - position: 11
"aren't you coming any closer, then?", she asked when gregor turned - position: 11
as she turned the key in the lock she said loudly to her parents "at - position: 3
steps.  as they turned the corner on each floor they disappeared and - position: 4
and, clearly peeved, called out "cheerio then, everyone", turned - position: 9

fear:
jumped off after their friend as if taken with a sudden fear that - position: 12

continue:
continue listening, when his head would fall wearily against the - position: 1
unbearable and would continue to do so, she probably even had to - position: 4
continue being of help to him. - position: 1

1.d:
1.d.  the copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern - position: 1

conversations:
they no longer held the lively conversations of earlier times, of - position: 7

entity:
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.e.8. - position: 1
your written explanation.  the person or entity that provided you with - position: 7
refund.  if you received the work electronically, the person or entity - position: 11

flee:
overcome the urge to flee when she saw the little bit of him that - position: 5

expression:
expression.  gregor crawled a little further forward, keeping his - position: 1
expression in her eyes. - position: 1

hurt:
thought of how his finger had still hurt the day before yesterday. - position: 8
do any more.  and the injury in gregor's back began to hurt as much - position: 12

ceiling:
electric street lamps shone palely here and there onto the ceiling - position: 11
of crawling up and down the walls and ceiling.  he was especially - position: 9
fond of hanging from the ceiling; it was quite different from lying - position: 6
that he would surprise even himself by letting go of the ceiling and - position: 12
he crawled over everything, walls, furniture, ceiling, and finally - position: 7
ceiling.  whatever he did, gregor had to admit that he certainly - position: 1
his room - crawling over the ceiling was out of the question - but - position: 6

broad:
difficult after that, especially as he was so exceptionally broad. - position: 10
body was too broad to get through it without further difficulty.  in - position: 4
broad to get it all underneath. - position: 1

performance:
had enough of the whole performance and it was only now out of - position: 6

deranged:
cough dully, her hand held out in front of her and a deranged - position: 13

1.e.4:
1.e.4.  do not unlink or detach or remove the full project gutenberg-tm - position: 1

steady:
a steady and invisible force.  gregor's mother, her hair still - position: 2
the three gentlemen made slow but steady progress down the many - position: 7

destroy:
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy - position: 13
destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium - position: 1

numerous:
something to hold onto, landed on his numerous little legs.  hardly - position: 8
throughout numerous locations.  its business office is located at - position: 2

warm:
although there was no longer much warm affection given in return. - position: 7
wanted to transform his room into a cave, a warm room fitted out - position: 10
open country outside the town.  they had the tram, filled with warm - position: 12

shorthand:
had taken a sales job, learned shorthand and french in the evenings - position: 7

donors:
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who - position: 6

peel:
only have to push their arms under the dome of his back, peel him - position: 13

exceptionally:
difficult after that, especially as he was so exceptionally broad. - position: 9

froze:
"that'll be someone from work", he said to himself, and froze very - position: 11
immediately flew at him; gregor froze in shock; there was no longer - position: 6

mechanical:
the face of her mother, and she wiped them away with mechanical hand - position: 12

stand:
because he couldn't stand the smell.  long after he had finished - position: 4
would have been more than they could stand to have any more - position: 8
that he could not stand all of this much longer.  they were emptying - position: 5
the old days; but he had to just stand behind her doing nothing; she - position: 9
able to stand up but, as a sign of his pleasure, would just raise - position: 3
gregor's father soon appeared with the music stand, his mother with - position: 8
stand to look at all the notes being played, and they must have - position: 1
from the stand, took their sticks from the holder, bowed without a - position: 3

stillness:
as if he perhaps expected the total stillness to bring things back - position: 8

openly:
subdued voice, and openly pressed her face into his chest: "mother's - position: 4

check:
a constant state of change.  if you are outside the united states, check - position: 13
please check the project gutenberg web pages for current donation - position: 2

jaws:
help himself snapping in the air with his jaws at the sight of the - position: 9
not possible to perform anything with jaws that are toothless - position: 7

quaking:
with anger, into the bedroom; his sister, quaking with tears, - position: 8

expend:
1.f.1.  project gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable - position: 7

helplessness:
his sister just shrugged her shoulders as a sign of the helplessness - position: 12

question:
reply to this question, the chief clerk's firm footsteps in his - position: 4
gregor realised that it was out of the question to let the chief - position: 9
to everything - there was, of course, no question of her ever - position: 8
it was out of the question to leave the flat entirely empty.  and on - position: 6
his room - crawling over the ceiling was out of the question - but - position: 11
question; his sister shook her hand vigorously through her tears as - position: 1
a sign that of that there was no question. - position: 9

feeble:
of feeble women to be heaving about, but gregor listened as they - position: 2

edges:
against the back of a nearby chair and held tightly to the edges of - position: 13

bringing:
before, if that was possible, he could think of no way of bringing - position: 13
representative almost overnight, bringing with it the chance to earn - position: 4
money that gregor had been bringing home every month, keeping only a - position: 6

promise:
and held particularly good promise for the future.  the greatest - position: 5

together:
money together to pay off my parents' debt to him - another five or - position: 2
eat if his whole body worked together as a snuffling whole - but the - position: 7
they went away together on tip-toe.  it was clear that no-one would - position: 4
walk together on a sunday or public holiday wrapped up tightly in - position: 2
it was and sit close together, cheek to cheek; his mother would - position: 6
serious but too slow, - all of them appeared to him, mixed together - position: 12
still playing, but then she suddenly pulled herself together, lay - position: 9
continually rubbed them together in gleeful anticipation of a loud - position: 4
after that, the three of them left the flat together, which was - position: 10

appreciation:
adult's appreciation of the burdensome job she had taken on. - position: 2

state's:
permitted by u.s. federal laws and your state's laws. - position: 8

finished:
he had nearly finished turning round, still listening to that - position: 4
because he couldn't stand the smell.  long after he had finished - position: 11
heavy for them to get the job finished before gregor's father got - position: 8
kitchen.  the three gentlemen had already finished their meal, the - position: 7
she had already finished making the beds and slipped out again - position: 4
finished turning round he began to move straight ahead.  he was - position: 1
while they were writing to tell them she was going, she'd finished - position: 12
they quickly finished their letters. - position: 3

asthma:
and earn money? she suffered from asthma and it was a strain for her - position: 7

gained:
destroyed the peace they had only just gained.  they got up and went - position: 8

picture:
above it there hung a picture that he had recently cut out of an - position: 6
suddenly caught by the picture on the wall - which was already - position: 5
in copious fur.  he hurried up onto the picture and pressed himself - position: 9
belly.  this picture at least, now totally covered by gregor, would - position: 3
on his picture.  he would rather jump at grete's face. - position: 3
to help too - he could save his picture later, although he stuck - position: 8

snuffling:
eat if his whole body worked together as a snuffling whole - but the - position: 10

violinist:
very fond of music and a gifted and expressive violinist, it was his - position: 10

planned:
planned with a grand announcement of it on christmas day. - position: 1

excusal:
three letters of excusal,  mr. samsa to his employers,  mrs. samsa - position: 4

indeed:
indeed suffering enough. - position: 1
insist; she had indeed noticed that gregor needed a lot of room to - position: 4
an authority for the other two, did indeed cut off a piece of meat - position: 8
ahead as if waiting for something.  and indeed, his two friends - position: 8
body was indeed completely dried up and flat, they had not seen it - position: 3

swore:
if she had done her an enormous service.  she even swore - position: 11

thumped:
thumped on the table with her small fists; and gregor hissed in - position: 1

real:
to their real and natural state. - position: 3
day, rather than any real curiosity, she opened the door to gregor's - position: 5

displacing:
and tears that had taken hold of her, displacing her earlier - position: 9

notice:
think about i'd have given in my notice a long time ago, i'd have - position: 8
to notice that the coffee pot had been knocked over and a gush of - position: 2
away, but when she did notice him under the couch - he had to be - position: 6
and watched her.  would she notice that he had left the milk as it - position: 6
notice the chair twice before she would always push it back to its - position: 1
his father, though, was not in the mood to notice subtleties like - position: 10
immediate notice on my room.  for the days that i have been living - position: 2
joined in with the words: "and we also give immediate notice."  with - position: 11
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is - position: 9
incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of such - position: 7
unless a copyright notice is included.  thus, we do not necessarily - position: 4

hurried:
calmly he would still have no reason to be upset, and if he hurried - position: 14
some hurried steps and the sound of the door leading into the front - position: 2
hurried under the couch.  it pressed down on his back a little, and - position: 1
her, she hurried out again and even turned the key in the lock so - position: 3
hurried back under the couch.  but he needed great self-control to - position: 1
the sight of gregor, he might have made her ill, so gregor hurried - position: 13
in copious fur.  he hurried up onto the picture and pressed himself - position: 5
side, they hurried out of bed.  mr. samsa threw the blanket over his - position: 3

needn't:
in there, you needn't worry about how you're going to get rid of it. - position: 4

perform:
not possible to perform anything with jaws that are toothless - position: 4
1.e.5.  do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this - position: 6

crucial:
other.  whatever was said next would be crucial, so, in order to - position: 8

delay:
gregor's mother to let her go without delay.  it was not very clear - position: 8
back into his room without delay, that it would not be necessary to - position: 6
delay, the man actually did take long strides into the front - position: 1

definite:
definite ideas.  he sat upright, played with his uniform cap between - position: 1

door:
there was a cautious knock at the door near his head.  "gregor", - position: 8
outside through the wooden door, as his mother was satisfied with - position: 5
gregor!"  at the other side door his sister came plaintively: - position: 6
his breakfast, but his sister whispered: "gregor, open the door, i - position: 10
beg of you."  gregor, however, had no thought of opening the door, - position: 12
decision very soon.  then there was a ring at the door of the flat. - position: 11
"they're not opening the door", gregor said to himself, caught in - position: 5
went to the door as ever and opened it.  gregor only needed to hear - position: 4
wants to speak to you personally.  so please open up this door.  i'm - position: 12
continued to speak through the door.  "he isn't well, please believe - position: 6
as gregor opens the door.  anyway, i'm glad you're here; we wouldn't - position: 5
have been able to get gregor to open the door by ourselves; he's so - position: 10
now then?", asked his father impatiently, knocking at the door - position: 10
to open the door, really did want to let them see him and to speak - position: 4
through the hall, wrenching open the front door of the flat as they - position: 8
was no sound of the door banging shut again; they must have left it - position: 6
against the door and listening. - position: 3
gregor slowly pushed his way over to the door with the chair.  once - position: 9
there he let go of it and threw himself onto the door, holding - position: 12
the handle of the door to open it completely. - position: 5
because he had to open the door in this way, it was already wide - position: 7
now he also saw him - he was the nearest to the door - his hand - position: 12
the other door which was still held bolted in place.  in this way - position: 3
respect for his uniform and bearing.  the door to the entrance hall - position: 8
was open and as the front door of the flat was also open he could - position: 7
while gregor was speaking, but moved steadily towards the door - position: 10
she would close the front door in the entrance hall and talk him out - position: 6
be understood, he let go of the door; pushed himself through the - position: 8
door and was painfully injured, leaving vile brown flecks on it, - position: 1
bleeding, deep into his room.  the door was slammed shut with the - position: 7
some hurried steps and the sound of the door leading into the front - position: 9
dark.  he pushed himself over to the door, feeling his way clumsily - position: 8
it was only when he had reached the door that he realised what it - position: 9
something to eat.  by the door there was a dish filled with - position: 6
through the crack in the door, gregor could see that the gas had - position: 6
once during that long evening, the door on one side of the room was - position: 7
opened very slightly and hurriedly closed again; later on the door - position: 11
immediately by the door, resolved either to bring the timorous - position: 4
was; but the door was opened no more that night and gregor waited in - position: 4
ended, his sister, nearly fully dressed, opened the door from the - position: 9
shocked that she lost control of herself and slammed the door shut - position: 11
opened the door again straight away and came in on tip-toe as if - position: 3
anyone speaking he would scurry straight to the appropriate door and - position: 10
mind in his present state, pressed upright against the door and - position: 10
door and he would pull it up again with a start, as even the - position: 1
slightest noise he caused would be heard next door and they would - position: 9
after a while, clearly having gone over to the door, and only then - position: 10
behind the door, gregor nodded with enthusiasm in his pleasure at - position: 3
gregor would always first let go of the door and then throw himself - position: 9
had she come in than she would quickly close the door as a - position: 11
closed the door behind her, a stranger would have thought he had - position: 3
them, father and mother, would often both wait outside the door of - position: 11
and never to have to open the door unless it was especially - position: 8
joy, but once at the door she went silent.  first, of course, his - position: 6
door into the living room so that he could watch the women when they - position: 1
she could and ran with them in to her mother; she slammed the door - position: 14
door if he did not want to chase his sister away, and she had to - position: 1
door.  the maid, of course, had locked herself in her kitchen so - position: 1
possible.  so he fled to the door of his room and pressed himself - position: 7
drive him back but that they had only to open the door and he would - position: 12
door and lifted it towards his father.  he really had not imagined - position: 1
he saw was the door of his room being pulled open, his sister was - position: 5
up for by the door to the living room being left open every evening. - position: 5
himself, let the women take him to the door, send them off and carry - position: 9
point to gregor's room and say "close that door, grete", and then, - position: 9
next time the door was opened; he had long forgotten about his boss - position: 4
anger that no-one had even thought of closing the door to save him - position: 10
day, rather than any real curiosity, she opened the door to gregor's - position: 10
front of her.  from then on she never failed to open the door - position: 13
was without moving as if the door had never even been opened.  if - position: 7
just lifted up one of the chairs from near the door and stood there - position: 11
full beards, as gregor learned peering through the crack in the door - position: 12
the door to this room was often kept closed in the evening.  but - position: 2
gregor found it easy to give up having the door open, he had, after - position: 10
corner.  one time, though, the charwoman left the door to the living - position: 9
up and went on tip-toe over to the door of the hallway where they - position: 9
their own chairs; his father leant against the door with his right - position: 9
door of his room at once to hiss and spit at the attackers; his - position: 1
until, when he was already at the door of the room, the middle of - position: 8
that, he took hold of the door handle and slammed the door. - position: 7
that, he took hold of the door handle and slammed the door. - position: 12
he was hardly inside his room before the door was hurriedly shut, - position: 9
how they went into gregor's room.  on the way they opened the door - position: 13
but not without looking back at the body.  the cleaner shut the door - position: 13
then the door of the bedroom opened and  mr. samsa appeared in his - position: 3
"leave my home.  now!", said  mr. samsa, indicating the door and - position: 10
round sharply and left, slamming the door terribly as she went. - position: 7

hugged:
hurrying over to him where they kissed him and hugged him and then - position: 10

made:
drops of rain could be heard hitting the pane, which made him feel - position: 11
it, the words could be made out at first but then there was a sort - position: 6
of echo which made them unclear, leaving the hearer unsure whether - position: 4
made the other members of the family aware that gregor, against - position: 1
wisdom to investigate it? and more because these thoughts had made - position: 11
made the sound muffled and not too noticeable.  he had not held his - position: 1
is working with his fretsaw.  he's made a little frame, for - position: 7
saying, he made his way over to the chest of drawers - this was - position: 3
situation had been confident and wise, and that made him feel - position: 9
was, of course, made up for with a very strong jaw; using the jaw, - position: 4
only when he had reached the entrance hall that he made a sudden - position: 11
he looked back for the last time.  gregor made a run for him; he - position: 9
hissing, he made a mistake and turned himself back a little the way - position: 3
to remain made him feel uneasy as he lay there flat on the floor, - position: 3
would cause great expense that would have to be made up for in some - position: 10
usual.  it made him realise that she still found his appearance - position: 3
though, she had to be held back by force, which made her call out: - position: 11
hearing these words from his mother made gregor realise that the - position: 7
life led by the family during these two months, must have made him - position: 12
furniture made it difficult for him to crawl about mindlessly that - position: 2
unexpected confidence she had recently acquired, that made her - position: 8
the sight of gregor, he might have made her ill, so gregor hurried - position: 8
floor, all these things made him feel as if he were being assailed - position: 5
but grete's words had made her mother quite worried, she stepped to - position: 5
must have made everything clear to him.  she answered him with - position: 3
this deterioration in his condition was fully (in his opinion) made - position: 11
consideration for him that made it difficult for them to move, it - position: 5
nothing he would have wanted, he made plans of how he could get into - position: 7
water to do it - although that much dampness also made gregor ill - position: 10
structure that made her able to withstand the hardest of things in - position: 3
stopped him eating, but he had soon got used to the changes made - position: 13
unless gregor made his way through the junk and moved it somewhere - position: 3
and perhaps also because he was weak from hunger, made it impossible - position: 10
darkness.  he soon made the discovery that he could no longer move - position: 4
made her usual brief look in on gregor and at first found nothing - position: 1
the broom, sending it sideways across the floor.  mrs. samsa made a - position: 11
irritably.  she just put her finger on her lips and made a quick and - position: 11
the three gentlemen made slow but steady progress down the many - position: 4
that made her unable to speak straight away, "well then, that thing - position: 2
everything in detail but, with outstretched hand, he made it quite - position: 9

efforts:
efforts, he bit on the key with all his strength, paying no - position: 1
efforts to muster all the strength he could for running he could - position: 1
efforts of gregor's mother and sister to look after it.  gregor - position: 1
collection.  despite these efforts, project gutenberg-tm electronic - position: 4
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from - position: 4
and how your efforts and donations can help, see sections 3 and 4 - position: 4

fro:
all, but he soon had to admit that the women going to and fro, their - position: 14
by surprise, no-one was chasing him but he began to rush to and fro - position: 14

streets:
flat and force us to sleep on the streets.  father, look, just - position: 9

confused:
that unbearable hissing! it was making gregor quite confused.  when - position: 9
confused - he could think of no other way of explaining to himself - position: 1

circumstances:
answer and explain everything, but in the circumstances contented - position: 8
present circumstances, they could not move out of it, there was no - position: 2

luxury:
sleep.  other travelling salesmen live a life of luxury.  for - position: 9

screams:
screams.  "anna! anna!" his father called into the kitchen through - position: 1

suffer:
don't make my parents suffer! there's no basis for any of the - position: 5
ill and we're making him suffer.  grete! grete!" she then cried. - position: 6
precaution so that no-one would have to suffer the view into - position: 8

frightening:
frightening end? that was something that gregor did not want to - position: 1
but gregor had had no intention of frightening anyone, least of all - position: 8

station:
he really could be at the station for eight o'clock.  the first few - position: 7

shook:
and wept so that his powerful chest shook. - position: 8
question; his sister shook her hand vigorously through her tears as - position: 4

forehead:
forehead.  her words seemed to give gregor's father some more - position: 1

familiar:
between its four familiar walls.  a collection of textile samples - position: 4
was not familiar with how well he could move about in his present - position: 3

monster:
it, but i can.  i don't want to call this monster my brother, all i - position: 11

sweetened:
sweetened milk with little pieces of white bread floating in it.  he - position: 1

distance:
distance as to which way to turn.  if only his father would stop - position: 1
amazed at the great distance that separated him from his room, and - position: 5
could not understand how he had covered that distance in his weak - position: 9

mingle:
their tears would mingle, or they would simply sit there staring - position: 4

tone:
not know) to hear not even the tone of her voice, as she was - position: 8

glanced:
thrown without much force glanced against gregor's back and slid off - position: 5

ensuring:
goals and ensuring that the project gutenberg-tm collection will - position: 3

resolved:
immediately by the door, resolved either to bring the timorous - position: 5

trips:
trips, who would receive him sitting in the armchair in his - position: 1

worn:
clearly worn into the floor, the desk where he had done his homework - position: 2
dressed in a smart blue uniform with gold buttons, the sort worn by - position: 12

angry:
angry and glad at the same time.  gregor drew his head back from the - position: 1

vigorously:
question; his sister shook her hand vigorously through her tears as - position: 7
abandoned his mother as she pushed herself vigorously out of her - position: 8

site:
posted on the official project gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net), - position: 8
information can be found at the foundation's web site and official - position: 9
most people start at our web site which has the main pg search facility: - position: 7
this web site includes information about project gutenberg-tm, - position: 3

source:
had been a source of irritation to  mr. samsa all the time she had - position: 4

weeks:
as a reproach to her, but he could have stayed there for weeks - position: 13

try:
there eating their breakfasts.  i ought to just try that with my - position: 9
from the wall.  well, she could certainly try it! he sat unyielding - position: 8
that meant gregor would now have to try to calm his father, as he - position: 8
father to wake him and try to persuade him to go to bed, as he - position: 6
can say is: we have to try and get rid of it.  we've done all that's - position: 7
"we have to try and get rid of it", said gregor's sister, now - position: 4

subject:
about the same subject as there were always at least two members of - position: 4
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial - position: 1

based:
works based on the work as long as all references to project gutenberg - position: 2
creating derivative works based on this work or any other project - position: 4

floor:
careful as he swang over onto the floor, where, hopefully, the - position: 8
from his mouth, flowed over the key and dripped onto the floor. - position: 12
towards gregor and sank down onto the floor into her skirts that - position: 8
as he crouched there on the floor.  his mother was not far away in - position: 7
fluttered and some of them were blown onto the floor.  nothing would - position: 10
to remain made him feel uneasy as he lay there flat on the floor, - position: 14
the window during the day, the few square meters of the floor did - position: 12
on the floor; he could breathe more freely; his body had a light - position: 3
landing on the floor with a crash.  but now, of course, he had far - position: 4
floor, all these things made him feel as if he were being assailed - position: 1
his body pressed to the floor, he was forced to admit to himself - position: 6
clearly worn into the floor, the desk where he had done his homework - position: 5
heavily on the floor. - position: 4
all this time on the floor, largely because he feared his father - position: 6
after another.  these little, red apples rolled about on the floor, - position: 11
shy to move forward a little onto the immaculate floor of the living - position: 10
- here he looked briefly but decisively at the floor - "i give - position: 9
and landed loudly on the floor. - position: 6
floor.  he stopped and looked round.  they seemed to have realised - position: 1
the floor with no resistance at all did she start to pay attention. - position: 2
the broom, sending it sideways across the floor.  mrs. samsa made a - position: 8
steps.  as they turned the corner on each floor they disappeared and - position: 9

calmness:
chief clerk, with a calmness that was in contrast with his mother's - position: 5

visitor:
visitor into the room in some way or at least to find out who it - position: 1

modification:
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any - position: 4

pale:
worry they had been having of late her cheeks had become pale, but, - position: 12

cut:
above it there hung a picture that he had recently cut out of an - position: 11
a month earlier he had cut his finger slightly with a knife, he - position: 6
pleasure for gregor to cut himself off so completely.  she left the - position: 5
round; a bottle fell to the ground and broke; a splinter cut - position: 12
an authority for the other two, did indeed cut off a piece of meat - position: 9

goals:
goals and ensuring that the project gutenberg-tm collection will - position: 1

matter:
it was a simple matter to throw off the covers; he only had to blow - position: 5
close the matter with a big, loud "no", and no more would be said. - position: 3

serious:
sign of a serious cold, which was an occupational hazard for - position: 4
nothing serious.  but on the other hand, i must say that if we - position: 2
than yes or no for an answer, you are causing serious and - position: 11
stood there upright; the lower part of his body was in serious pain - position: 12
it there for more than a month, and his condition seemed serious - position: 12
serious but too slow, - all of them appeared to him, mixed together - position: 1
they were in serious need of it.  so they sat at the table and wrote - position: 4

staff:
staff, in fact, if i can say this in confidence, a better overview - position: 1
outside the united states.  u.s. laws alone swamp our small staff. - position: 11

continuing:
their letters as if intent on continuing with what they were - position: 7

occupational:
sign of a serious cold, which was an occupational hazard for - position: 9

window:
gregor then turned to look out the window at the dull weather. - position: 8
eyes to the window and look out as clearly as he could, but - position: 4
pulled open a window, leant far out of it and pressed her hands to - position: 4
struggling for breath on the sofa by the open window.  would his - position: 10
to all the effort of pushing a chair to the window, climbing up onto - position: 11
the sill and, propped up in the chair, leaning on the window to - position: 12
looking out the window at a barren waste where the grey sky and the - position: 4
exact position by the window after she had tidied up the room, and - position: 5
even left the inner pane of the window open from then on. - position: 8
gregor's room, then she would go straight to the window and pull it - position: 10
cold, she would stay at the window breathing deeply for a little - position: 7
still staring out the window, motionless, and just where he would be - position: 5
difficult for her to immediately open the window while he was still - position: 8
the window during the day, the few square meters of the floor did - position: 2
they  withdrew back to the window with their heads sunk and talking - position: 6
to each other at half volume, and they stayed by the window while - position: 12
window too.  then, without his willing it, his head sank down - position: 1
and opened the window wide.  although it was still early in the - position: 4
over to the window where they remained with their arms around each - position: 4

different:
train connections, bad and irregular food, contact with different - position: 9
moving in different directions, and which he was moreover unable to - position: 3
different from the way that a human coughs and he was no longer sure - position: 1
different newspapers.  on the wall exactly opposite there was - position: 1
anything different, and gregor had never asked him about it anyway. - position: 2
money in quite different ways.  gregor converted his success at work - position: 4
fond of hanging from the ceiling; it was quite different from lying - position: 10
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set - position: 8

complete:
complete it.  "now then", said  mr. samsa, "let's give thanks to god - position: 1

machine:
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest - position: 4

engrossed:
front of him and seemed, at first, quite engrossed in herself, but - position: 9

shout:
doors and shout loudly into the darkness of the bedrooms: "come and - position: 3

sweetly:
sweetly.  the other two held their hands behind their backs and - position: 1

cease:
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy - position: 8

struck:
to get out of the bed, when the clock struck quarter to seven. - position: 10
clock struck again, "seven o'clock, and there's still a fog like - position: 2
as soon as it struck ten, gregor's mother would speak gently to his - position: 5
despair, and the thought that they had been struck with a misfortune - position: 9
like it! one day, early in the morning while a heavy rain struck the - position: 13
while they were talking,  mr. and  mrs. samsa were struck, almost - position: 10

anyone:
this ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with - position: 8
people all the time so that you can never get to know anyone or - position: 13
anyone speaking he would scurry straight to the appropriate door and - position: 1
emphatically not to tell anyone the slightest about what had - position: 5
crawl about in, whereas the furniture, as far as anyone could see, - position: 10
unlike anything experienced by anyone else they knew or were related - position: 5
this misfortune hadn't got in the way, and refuse to let anyone - position: 12
anyone could accuse us of doing anything wrong." - position: 1
but gregor had had no intention of frightening anyone, least of all - position: 9
this ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with - position: 8
and distributed to anyone in the united states without paying any fees - position: 4
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the foundation, anyone - position: 10
with anyone.  for thirty years, he produced and distributed project - position: 2

considerations:
business considerations."  "can the chief clerk come in to see you - position: 2

swang:
careful as he swang over onto the floor, where, hopefully, the - position: 4
him upset than through any proper decision, he swang himself with - position: 9

gold:
dressed in a smart blue uniform with gold buttons, the sort worn by - position: 8
scalp.  he took his cap, with its gold monogram from, probably, some - position: 8
this coat, with its gold buttons always kept polished and shiny, - position: 5

guessed:
wildest possibilities, but he never could have guessed what his - position: 8

clearer:
him, clearer than before - perhaps his ears had become used to the - position: 2

compellingly:
compellingly, attracted him much more than the other foods on the - position: 1

adult's:
adult's appreciation of the burdensome job she had taken on. - position: 1

noise:
possible to quietly sleep through that furniture-rattling noise? - position: 8
main concern was for the loud noise he was bound to make, and which - position: 7
really a loud noise.  his fall was softened a little by the carpet, - position: 4
for getting through the doorway.  what he did, making more noise - position: 11
slightest noise he caused would be heard next door and they would - position: 2
and noise making; he would stay under the couch shivering the whole - position: 2
the sight of this and all its noise. - position: 8
bolted and locked.  the sudden noise behind gregor so startled him - position: 6

accurately:
going, in to the office? yes? will you report everything accurately, - position: 11

willing:
chair as if more willing to sacrifice her own mother than stay - position: 5
window too.  then, without his willing it, his head sank down - position: 6

trapped:
sister, so that i'm trapped in a difficult situation, but i will - position: 5

obtain:
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or - position: 7
through 1.e.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the - position: 4
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from - position: 7

spin:
in his confusion as the whole room began to spin around him he fell - position: 10

often:
lying in bed.  he remembered that he had often felt a slight pain in - position: 9
open;  people often do in homes where something awful has happened. - position: 3
a sound to be heard.  gregor's sister would often write and tell him - position: 9
frequent, she would often say, sadly, "now everything's just been - position: 4
gregor often heard how one of them would unsuccessfully urge another - position: 2
his sister would often turn to the conservatory but it was only ever - position: 4
he would often lie there the whole night through, not sleeping a - position: 3
themselves to come into the room to see him.  he would often hear - position: 12
them, father and mother, would often both wait outside the door of - position: 6
would often spend the whole evening looking at all the stains on - position: 2
- more often than not - had been left totally untouched.  she still - position: 2
a few hours and then, more often than not, spit it out again.  at - position: 7
the door to this room was often kept closed in the evening.  but - position: 7
all, often failed to make use of it when it was open and, without - position: 2
when the cleaner came in early in the morning - they'd often asked - position: 11
project gutenberg-tm ebooks are often created from several printed - position: 5

connections:
train connections, bad and irregular food, contact with different - position: 2

originally:
all that secure.  i had originally intended to say all this to you - position: 6

persecuting:
him with respect.  as it is this animal is persecuting us, it's - position: 10

suggest:
your employer did suggest a possible reason for your failure to - position: 4

congratulated:
and instead congratulated himself for his cautious habit, acquired - position: 3

healthy:
money to live on had to be earned.  his father was healthy but old, - position: 12

representations:
gutenberg-tm work.  the foundation makes no representations concerning - position: 7

waved:
with the size of the rest of him, waved about helplessly as he - position: 9

watering:
newspaper.  quickly one after another, his eyes watering with - position: 8

sill:
the sill and, propped up in the chair, leaning on the window to - position: 2

foundation:
one owns a united states copyright in these works, so the foundation - position: 12
1.c.  the project gutenberg literary archive foundation ("the foundation" - position: 7
1.c.  the project gutenberg literary archive foundation ("the foundation" - position: 9
gutenberg-tm work.  the foundation makes no representations concerning - position: 4
project gutenberg literary archive foundation.  royalty payments - position: 5
sent to the project gutenberg literary archive foundation at the - position: 8
the project gutenberg literary archive foundation." - position: 6
both the project gutenberg literary archive foundation and michael - position: 7
foundation as set forth in section 3 below. - position: 1
gutenberg literary archive foundation, the owner of the project - position: 4
provided in paragraph f3.  you agree that the foundation, the - position: 9
1.f.6.  indemnity - you agree to indemnify and hold the foundation, the - position: 10
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the foundation, anyone - position: 9
gutenberg literary archive foundation was created to provide a secure - position: 4
to learn more about the project gutenberg literary archive foundation - position: 10
and the foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org. - position: 3
foundation - position: 1
the project gutenberg literary archive foundation is a non profit - position: 6
literary archive foundation are tax deductible to the full extent - position: 3
literary archive foundation - position: 3
the foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating - position: 2
archive foundation, how to help produce our new ebooks, and how to - position: 2

tickle:
tried to tickle gregor with it from the doorway.  when she had no - position: 3

unsatisfactory:
your turnover has been very unsatisfactory of late; i grant you that - position: 6

attracted:
compellingly, attracted him much more than the other foods on the - position: 2

eyebrows:
eyebrows, his piercing, dark eyes looked out fresh and alert; his - position: 1

inch:
without, of course, moving it an inch.  his mother was not used to - position: 7

anger:
the train he would not avoid his boss's anger as the office - position: 9
with anger, into the bedroom; his sister, quaking with tears, - position: 2
anger that no-one had even thought of closing the door to save him - position: 1

caution:
this unexpected thrift and caution.  he could actually have used - position: 5

breakfasts:
there eating their breakfasts.  i ought to just try that with my - position: 4
amazement for their breakfasts;  they had been forgotten about. - position: 4

chose:
gather, he chose the wrong direction, hit hard against the lower - position: 3

interrupted:
would the interrupted conversation slowly be taken up again. - position: 3
suddenly interrupted.  she had let her hands drop and let violin and - position: 2

soughing:
exclaim a loud "oh!", which sounded like the soughing of the wind. - position: 9

butter:
butter and salt.  as well as all that she had poured some water into - position: 1

conscience:
devoted who would go so mad with pangs of conscience that he - position: 10

similar:
or something similar.  no-one drank very much either.  his sister - position: 3

behind:
she had forgotten that the table was behind her with all the - position: 8
(the chief clerk had left it behind on a chair, along with his hat - position: 7
now more than one father behind him; it was not a pleasant - position: 6
ground.  then his father gave him a hefty shove from behind which - position: 11
behind the door, gregor nodded with enthusiasm in his pleasure at - position: 1
closed the door behind her, a stranger would have thought he had - position: 4
the old days; but he had to just stand behind her doing nothing; she - position: 10
were concealed behind carefully carved furniture full of notches and - position: 3
ability to see anything - her hands behind his father's head begging - position: 7
strangers, his sister ran back and forth behind her desk at the - position: 8
the doorway with a dish of meat and soon behind her came his sister - position: 10
hands in their pockets and come up far too close behind the music - position: 11
anywhere near gregor.  she rushed over to behind her father, who had - position: 8
but it was nonetheless enough to see that nothing behind him had - position: 10
bolted and locked.  the sudden noise behind gregor so startled him - position: 7
sweetly.  the other two held their hands behind their backs and - position: 8

send:
sister would send the maid away on some errand.  gregor's father and - position: 3
she could send the housekeeper for it, but then his father would - position: 3
secret plan to send her to the conservatory next year even though it - position: 4
himself, let the women take him to the door, send them off and carry - position: 10
send her to the conservatory, how he would have told everyone about - position: 1
send donations or determine the status of compliance for any - position: 1

condition:
there on the carpet, and no-one who knew the condition he was in - position: 10
unpleasantness that he, in his present condition, was forced to - position: 7
the good influence the furniture had on his condition; and if the - position: 9
it there for more than a month, and his condition seemed serious - position: 10
probably permanently.  he had been reduced to the condition of an - position: 9
this deterioration in his condition was fully (in his opinion) made - position: 5
do several times a day.  and despite this condition, he was not too - position: 9
startling as his pain-wracked condition meant that turning round - position: 5

curiosity:
day, rather than any real curiosity, she opened the door to gregor's - position: 6

matters:
these matters himself and partly because gregor's mother did not - position: 2

thunder:
the three gentlemen shouted like thunder and stamped his foot and - position: 6

endless:
meanwhile the day had become much lighter; part of the endless, - position: 11

infringement:
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a - position: 2

unfolded:
at his father.  then she unfolded her arms, took two steps forward - position: 6
with his father and mother, they unfolded the serviettes and picked - position: 7

performances:
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and - position: 8

living:
uncertainly round the living room, covered his eyes with his hands - position: 4
without travelling i couldn't earn my living.  so where are you - position: 7
movement, drew his foot from the living room, and rushed forward in - position: 7
been lit in the living room.  his father at this time would normally - position: 5
it was not until late at night that the gaslight in the living room - position: 13
even though he had been living in it for five years.  hardly aware - position: 6
door into the living room so that he could watch the women when they - position: 4
living room for a while?"  gregor could see what grete had in mind, - position: 1
up for by the door to the living room being left open every evening. - position: 8
where he could not be seen from the living room, he could watch the - position: 9
in gregor's room and, highly aggrieved, ran back into the living - position: 11
meal at home in the living room that was used by everyone, and so - position: 6
corner.  one time, though, the charwoman left the door to the living - position: 12
father came into the living room before he went into the kitchen, - position: 5
his head in the living room.  before, he had taken great pride in - position: 5
shy to move forward a little onto the immaculate floor of the living - position: 13
immediate notice on my room.  for the days that i have been living - position: 13
to the living room where grete had been sleeping since the three - position: 3

clenched:
her breast.  his father looked hostile, and clenched his fists as if - position: 8

recommend:
tell that to the boss and recommend me to him!" - position: 7

whose:
almost whispering as if wanting gregor (whose whereabouts she did - position: 7

*****:
***** this file should be named 5200.txt or 5200.zip ***** - position: 1
***** this file should be named 5200.txt or 5200.zip ***** - position: 10

concede:
too; you had to concede that it was possible.  but as if in gruff - position: 5

sensible:
that he would not bring his thoughts to any sensible conclusions by - position: 10
was not possible for him to stay in bed and that the most sensible - position: 14
be sacked on the spot.  and it seemed to gregor much more sensible - position: 13
thought i knew you as a calm and sensible person, and now you - position: 9

whereas:
crawl about in, whereas the furniture, as far as anyone could see, - position: 4

soles:
at the enormous size of the soles of his boots, but wasted no time - position: 7

breadth:
quite easily, and despite its breadth and its weight, the bulk of - position: 6

propped:
the sill and, propped up in the chair, leaning on the window to - position: 4

cigarettes:
cigarettes upwards from their mouth and noses.  yet gregor's sister - position: 1

calling:
have been calling to him, his father and his mother too: "well done, - position: 3

thinks:
thinks about the business.  it nearly makes me cross the way he - position: 1

spit:
a few hours and then, more often than not, spit it out again.  at - position: 10
door of his room at once to hiss and spit at the attackers; his - position: 10

chewing:
eating their chewing teeth could still be heard, as if they had - position: 3

pleasant:
now more than one father behind him; it was not a pleasant - position: 12

mixing:
broom and swept up the left-overs, mixing them in with the food he - position: 7

catch:
seven; if he were to catch that he would have to rush like mad and - position: 6
all feel particularly fresh and lively.  and even if he did catch - position: 12
catch a friendly comment, or at least a comment that could be - position: 1
mother, who still had not had time to catch her breath, began to - position: 9

burdensome:
burdensome about it, and the longer it went on, of course, the - position: 1
adult's appreciation of the burdensome job she had taken on. - position: 5

go:
become friendly with them.  it can all go to hell!"  he felt a - position: 8
instance, whenever i go back to the guest house during the morning - position: 4
especially when you have to go right up close because the boss is - position: 6
assistant would have been there to see the five o'clock train go, he - position: 12
didn't you want to go somewhere?"  that gentle voice! gregor was - position: 5
devoted who would go so mad with pangs of conscience that he - position: 4
so why did his sister not go and join the others? she had probably - position: 7
across gregor's room.  "you'll have to go for the doctor straight - position: 7
there he let go of it and threw himself onto the door, holding - position: 4
so gregor did not go into the room, but leant against the inside of - position: 5
what caused them.  please, don't go away, at least first say - position: 6
clerk go away in this mood if his position in the firm was not to be - position: 2
be understood, he let go of the door; pushed himself through the - position: 5
were even making the effort to carry him where he wanted to go; and - position: 13
backwards and was only able to go very slowly.  if gregor had only - position: 7
herself he would rather go hungry than draw her attention to it, - position: 5
gregor's mother to let her go without delay.  it was not very clear - position: 6
for the chance to go and fetch it herself.  when his father then - position: 5
all go silent.  "what's that he's doing now", his father would say - position: 2
very slow and clumsy.  would gregor's elderly mother now have to go - position: 12
sister have to go and earn money? she was still a child of - position: 4
gregor would always first let go of the door and then throw himself - position: 6
wink but scratching at the leather for hours on end.  or he might go - position: 14
gregor's room, then she would go straight to the window and pull it - position: 6
his mother also wanted to go in and visit gregor relatively soon but - position: 6
"let me go and see gregor, he is my unfortunate son! can't you - position: 3
that he would surprise even himself by letting go of the ceiling and - position: 9
and with a tremor in her voice: "come on, let's go back in the - position: 11
that grete would have to go and answer it.  his father had arrived - position: 6
see straight away that gregor had the best intentions and would go - position: 12
his father would go to sleep in his chair; his mother and sister - position: 4
that he had been dozing - and then he would go back to sleep again - position: 10
father to wake him and try to persuade him to go to bed, as he - position: 11
throw everything out in one go, but what actually happened was that - position: 6
"it's got to go", shouted his sister, "that's the only way, father. - position: 4
could go back into his room, although that was in itself quite - position: 2
possible, he felt that he must go away even more strongly than his - position: 7
rearranging themselves into new positions.  "alright, we'll go - position: 8
mr. samsa might go into the hallway in front of them and break the - position: 4
and to go for a walk; not only had they earned a break from work but - position: 3

damage:
he must have been causing some kind of damage as a brown fluid came - position: 9
great as that, caused himself no damage.  very soon his sister - position: 7
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by - position: 7
damage. - position: 1

stamping:
left, and used them to drive gregor back into his room, stamping his - position: 12

assuming:
to let one of the trainees make enquiries - assuming enquiries were - position: 9

professor:
professor michael s. hart is the originator of the project gutenberg-tm - position: 1

breach:
liability, breach of warranty or breach of contract except those - position: 2
liability, breach of warranty or breach of contract except those - position: 6

advantage:
was not a loss but a great advantage. - position: 8

1.c:
paragraph 1.c below.  there are a lot of things you can do with project - position: 2
1.c.  the project gutenberg literary archive foundation ("the foundation" - position: 1

abide:
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  if you do not agree to abide by all - position: 9

end:
an end.  he held back the urge to move but swayed from side to side - position: 2
frightening end? that was something that gregor did not want to - position: 2
even before the first day had come to an end, his father had - position: 10
wink but scratching at the leather for hours on end.  or he might go - position: 10
backwards to the far end of the couch.  in his startlement, though, - position: 5
was already the end of march, after all. - position: 4
quarrel which could only end in their favour.  "i mean just what i - position: 5
end of the project gutenberg ebook of metamorphosis, by franz kafka - position: 1
*** end of this project gutenberg ebook metamorphosis *** - position: 2

dawning:
father's behaviour that annoyed them or the dawning realisation that - position: 8

arrange:
despair, and gregor's only concern at that time had been to arrange - position: 12

gets:
"tonight she gets sacked", said  mr. samsa, but he received no reply - position: 3

conversation:
this explanation and shuffled away.  but this short conversation - position: 9
word of the conversation.  "well i can't think of any other way of - position: 4
press his whole body against it.  there was seldom any conversation, - position: 11
other way.  during gregor's short periods in town, conversation with - position: 9
would the interrupted conversation slowly be taken up again. - position: 4
conversation - with everyone's permission, in a way, and thus quite - position: 1
listening to the evening conversation about what price they had - position: 5

consumed:
pleasure, he consumed the cheese, the vegetables and the sauce; the - position: 3

license:
re-use it under the terms of the project gutenberg license included - position: 10
set forth in the general terms of use part of this license, apply to - position: 12
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial - position: 5
*** start: full license *** - position: 4
the full project gutenberg license - position: 5
gutenberg-tm license (available with this file or online at - position: 2
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property - position: 8
gutenberg-tm license when you share it without charge with others. - position: 2
access to, the full project gutenberg-tm license must appear prominently - position: 7
re-use it under the terms of the project gutenberg license included - position: 10
to the project gutenberg-tm license for all works posted with the - position: 5
license terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this - position: 1
gutenberg-tm license. - position: 2
license as specified in paragraph 1.e.1. - position: 1
license.  you must require such a user to return or - position: 1

necklace:
had kept free without any necklace or collar. - position: 6

shy:
shy to move forward a little onto the immaculate floor of the living - position: 1

swallow:
swallow any revulsion for him and to be patient, just to be patient. - position: 1

face:
in his hand and a carefree smile on his face as he called forth - position: 10
her face.  a strong draught of air flew in from the street towards - position: 2
certainly be taken away by no-one.  he turned his head to face the - position: 12
only because her mother was there, she remained calm, bent her face - position: 12
on his picture.  he would rather jump at grete's face. - position: 10
gregor's face, some kind of caustic medicine splashed all over him; - position: 2
subdued voice, and openly pressed her face into his chest: "mother's - position: 7
room and found herself face to face with him.  he was taken totally - position: 5
room and found herself face to face with him.  he was taken totally - position: 7
was playing so beautifully.  her face was leant to one side, - position: 6
the face of her mother, and she wiped them away with mechanical hand - position: 2
been asleep, and the paleness of her face seemed to confirm this. - position: 8
face against her father's arm. - position: 1
the doorway with a smile on her face as if she had some tremendous - position: 8

obvious:
obvious that they had expected to hear some beautiful or - position: 1
"my child", said her father with sympathy and obvious understanding, - position: 9

approved:
listened very closely to all this, and approved fully.  later, - position: 8

tremor:
and with a tremor in her voice: "come on, let's go back in the - position: 4

f3:
provided in paragraph f3.  you agree that the foundation, the - position: 4

gradually:
without taking his eyes off him.  he moved very gradually, as if - position: 10

revenue:
revenue service.  the foundation's ein or federal tax identification - position: 1

everyone:
vain.  the previous morning while the doors were locked everyone had - position: 10
second time after everyone had eaten their meal at midday as his - position: 4
her and which everyone in the family understood - cleaning up - position: 4
meal at home in the living room that was used by everyone, and so - position: 12
send her to the conservatory, how he would have told everyone about - position: 11
for him to move.  he was sure that everyone would turn on him any - position: 9
hurry she still did, so that everyone in the flat knew when she'd - position: 7
and, clearly peeved, called out "cheerio then, everyone", turned - position: 8

immediate:
immediate explanation.  i am astonished, quite astonished.  i - position: 1
immediate notice on my room.  for the days that i have been living - position: 1
joined in with the words: "and we also give immediate notice."  with - position: 10
1.e.1.  the following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate - position: 11
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the project - position: 4

seldom:
press his whole body against it.  there was seldom any conversation, - position: 9

dozing:
that he had been dozing - and then he would go back to sleep again - position: 5

left:
on the left.  gregor tried to imagine whether something of the sort - position: 3
"gregor", said his father now from the room to his left, "the chief - position: 11
a painful silence; in the room on his left his sister began to cry. - position: 9
was no sound of the door banging shut again; they must have left it - position: 13
trembling shoulders as he left.  he did not keep still for a moment - position: 5
(the chief clerk had left it behind on a chair, along with his hat - position: 5
left, and used them to drive gregor back into his room, stamping his - position: 1
left side seemed like one, painfully stretched scar,  and he limped - position: 1
left side make it difficult to eat the food - he was only able to - position: 1
favourite drink, and his sister had certainly left it there for him - position: 8
and watched her.  would she notice that he had left the milk as it - position: 10
say when he had diligently cleared away all the food left for him, - position: 11
or if he left most of it, which slowly became more and more - position: 4
left there again". - position: 1
how much she knew of what had happened but she left within a quarter - position: 11
even left the inner pane of the window open from then on. - position: 2
pleasure for gregor to cut himself off so completely.  she left the - position: 11
all, left traces of the adhesive from his feet as he crawled about - - position: 2
cook had left but she certainly would not have helped in this, she - position: 3
up for by the door to the living room being left open every evening. - position: 11
- more often than not - had been left totally untouched.  she still - position: 7
any quicker about it.  smears of dirt were left on the walls, here - position: 9
of gregor's room to his sister; from her left, gregor's sister - position: 9
they were left where they landed when they had first been thrown - position: 3
enjoy it although moving about in that way left him sad and tired to - position: 9
corner.  one time, though, the charwoman left the door to the living - position: 7
the plates left by the three gentlemen after their meal, and - position: 3
more, everything was left up to him.  as soon as he had finally - position: 4
word and left the premises.  mr. samsa and the two women followed - position: 3
round sharply and left, slamming the door terribly as she went. - position: 4
after that, the three of them left the flat together, which was - position: 7

pursue:
that happened his boss would once more pursue their parents with the - position: 8

running:
controlled, but now, instead of running after the chief clerk - position: 6
while.  she would alarm gregor twice a day with this running about - position: 11
would not be able to keep up this running about for long, as for - position: 9
efforts to muster all the strength he could for running he could - position: 10
think of any other way of saving himself than running; he almost - position: 10
any point in running as his father had decided to bombard him.  he - position: 4

also:
and gregor's back was also more elastic than he had thought, which - position: 5
reason i don't see why your parents should not also learn of it. - position: 10
it with his little legs.  by now he had also calmed down, and kept - position: 10
now he also saw him - he was the nearest to the door - his hand - position: 3
was open and as the front door of the flat was also open he could - position: 12
he should.  and you're also well aware that we travellers spend - position: 5
now gregor's sister also had to help his mother with the cooking; - position: 4
better she was able to do so, but as time went by gregor was also - position: 15
his mother also wanted to go in and visit gregor relatively soon but - position: 3
been thrown down by chance.  gregor also refrained, this time, from - position: 7
crawl around unimpeded in any direction, but it would also have let - position: 10
water to do it - although that much dampness also made gregor ill - position: 9
joined in with the words: "and we also give immediate notice."  with - position: 8
and perhaps also because he was weak from hunger, made it impossible - position: 3
was unnatural.  he also felt relatively comfortable.  it is true - position: 4
1.d.  the copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern - position: 12
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further - position: 2

box:
some receipt or document from the little cash box he had saved from - position: 9

spoke:
gregor spoke just now?"  "that was the voice of an animal", said the - position: 2
was about what they should do now; but even between meals they spoke - position: 13

hide:
threatened her and tried to bite her.  gregor went straight to hide - position: 12

translated:
translated by david wyllie. - position: 1
translated by david wyllie - position: 1
translated by david wyllie. - position: 1

exact:
exact position by the window after she had tidied up the room, and - position: 1

whims:
suddenly seem to be showing off with peculiar whims.  this morning, - position: 9

troubled:
one morning, when gregor samsa woke from troubled dreams, he found - position: 8

aware:
made the other members of the family aware that gregor, against - position: 8
only then would he consider what to do next, as he was well aware - position: 14
"now, then", said gregor, well aware that he was the only one to - position: 6
and concentration.  you're well aware that i'm seriously in debt to - position: 5
he should.  and you're also well aware that we travellers spend - position: 7
even though he had been living in it for five years.  hardly aware - position: 13

chance:
easily fall victim to gossip and chance and groundless complaints, - position: 7
for the chance to go and fetch it herself.  when his father then - position: 3
representative almost overnight, bringing with it the chance to earn - position: 8
been thrown down by chance.  gregor also refrained, this time, from - position: 5
spying out from under the sheet; he gave up the chance to see his - position: 11
her long life, wasn't really repelled by gregor.  just by chance one - position: 11
chance came.  was he an animal if music could captivate him so? it - position: 1

permanently:
the dish, which had probably been permanently set aside for gregor's - position: 7
probably permanently.  he had been reduced to the condition of an - position: 2

transport:
would have been quite easy to transport him in any suitable crate - position: 7

music:
very fond of music and a gifted and expressive violinist, it was his - position: 4
gregor's father soon appeared with the music stand, his mother with - position: 7
the music and his sister with the violin.  she calmly prepared - position: 2
hands in their pockets and come up far too close behind the music - position: 13
following the lines of music with a careful and melancholy - position: 5
chance came.  was he an animal if music could captivate him so? it - position: 8
bow hang limply for a while but continued to look at the music as if - position: 13

errors:
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual - position: 4

anna:
screams.  "anna! anna!" his father called into the kitchen through - position: 2
screams.  "anna! anna!" his father called into the kitchen through - position: 3

displaying:
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative - position: 4
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or - position: 4
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.e.1 with - position: 2
1.e.7.  do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying, - position: 11

distributor:
trademark owner, and any distributor under this agreement will not be - position: 5

ignoring:
he really was able to start the key turning, ignoring the fact that - position: 10
part of the work for herself and ignoring her mother's warnings that - position: 8

humility:
suddenly overcome with humility and wanted permission again from - position: 4

fast:
soon he was stuck fast and would not have been able to move at all - position: 5
fast to the glass and had to pull himself off by force; then he, - position: 1
concentrated on crawling as fast as he could and hardly noticed that - position: 5

finances:
explained to gregor's mother and sister what their finances and - position: 9

splinter:
round; a bottle fell to the ground and broke; a splinter cut - position: 11

committed:
the foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating - position: 4

contents:
looking at the ground as if the contents of his head were - position: 8

explaining:
explaining it,  mrs. samsa", said the chief clerk, "i hope it's - position: 1
when explaining things, his father repeated himself several times, - position: 2
confused - he could think of no other way of explaining to himself - position: 10

old:
on an old newspaper.  there were old, half-rotten vegetables; bones - position: 3
on an old newspaper.  there were old, half-rotten vegetables; bones - position: 7
there was still some money available from the old days.  it was not - position: 9
money to live on had to be earned.  his father was healthy but old, - position: 14
father; the sixteen year old maid had carried on bravely since the - position: 5
in by the hand.  the old chest of drawers was too heavy for a pair - position: 6
the old days; but he had to just stand behind her doing nothing; she - position: 2
while the old man in it would sleep, highly uncomfortable but - position: 3
peace i get in my old age!"  and supported by the two women he would - position: 6
probably considered friendly, such as "come on then, you old - position: 10
dung-beetle!", or "look at the old dung-beetle there!"  gregor never - position: 6
let's forget about all that old stuff, shall we.  come and give me a - position: 6
updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions - position: 8
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  it exists - position: 3

pay:
money together to pay off my parents' debt to him - another five or - position: 4
pay attention to anything else, when he heard the chief clerk - position: 1
of crawling about, he had neglected to pay attention to what was - position: 8
here i will, of course, pay nothing at all, on the contrary i will - position: 6
the floor with no resistance at all did she start to pay attention. - position: 12
- you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from - position: 2

leather:
onto the cool, leather sofa next to it, as he became quite hot with - position: 4
wink but scratching at the leather for hours on end.  or he might go - position: 6

load:
away from the bed, bend down with the load and then be patient and - position: 9
lift himself up carefully as if he were carrying the greatest load - position: 12

strenuous:
"oh, god", he thought, "what a strenuous career it is that i've - position: 7

jump:
on his picture.  he would rather jump at grete's face. - position: 7

ak:
fairbanks, ak, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered - position: 2

charitable:
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the united - position: 3

breast:
her breast.  his father looked hostile, and clenched his fists as if - position: 2

1.f.5:
1.f.5.  some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied - position: 1

yesterday:
thought of how his finger had still hurt the day before yesterday. - position: 12

attached:
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full project - position: 10

women:
the chief clerk was a lover of women, surely she could persuade him; - position: 8
of feeble women to be heaving about, but gregor listened as they - position: 3
hardly had the two women pushed the chest of drawers, groaning, out - position: 5
all, but he soon had to admit that the women going to and fro, their - position: 10
so, while the women were leant against the desk in the other room - position: 4
door into the living room so that he could watch the women when they - position: 12
expected", said his father, "just as i always said, but you women - position: 12
two women took him under the arms he would abruptly open his eyes, - position: 2
peace i get in my old age!"  and supported by the two women he would - position: 13
himself, let the women take him to the door, send them off and carry - position: 4
for that". he crossed himself, and the three women followed his - position: 9
without letting the women from him.  "what do you mean?", asked the - position: 4
word and left the premises.  mr. samsa and the two women followed - position: 11
way up and came nearer than they were,  mr. samsa and the women came - position: 13
bit of attention". the two women immediately did as he said, - position: 6

yes:
should have been; it certainly must have rung.  yes, but was it - position: 9
himself with saying: "yes, mother, yes, thank-you, i'm getting up - position: 4
himself with saying: "yes, mother, yes, thank-you, i'm getting up - position: 6
him know: "gregor, the chief clerk is here."  "yes, i know", said - position: 9
than yes or no for an answer, you are causing serious and - position: 2
going, in to the office? yes? will you report everything accurately, - position: 6
all, much more cosy and comfortable?"  "oh yes, we'd love to", - position: 8
respect for.  "yes", she answered, and broke into a friendly laugh - position: 3

drawers:
drawers.  "god in heaven!" he thought.  it was half past six and the - position: 1
saying, he made his way over to the chest of drawers - this was - position: 11
times he tried to climb up on the smooth chest of drawers he just - position: 12
drawers and the desk.  now, this was not something that she would be - position: 1
in by the hand.  the old chest of drawers was too heavy for a pair - position: 9
removing not only the chest of drawers and the desk, as she had - position: 7
helped gregor's sister to get the chest of drawers out with what - position: 9
strength she had.  the chest of drawers was something that gregor - position: 7
hardly had the two women pushed the chest of drawers, groaning, out - position: 10

owns:
one owns a united states copyright in these works, so the foundation - position: 2
or pglaf), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of project - position: 3

merchantibility:
warranties of merchantibility or fitness for any purpose. - position: 3

compared:
to slide off any moment.  his many legs, pitifully thin compared - position: 11

employers:
three letters of excusal,  mr. samsa to his employers,  mrs. samsa - position: 9

effort:
takes much more effort than doing your own business at home, and on - position: 4
both sides: "i'm ready, now", making an effort to remove all the - position: 8
it took just as much effort to get back to where he had been - position: 6
method was more of a game than an effort, all he had to do was rock - position: 9
legs.  he rested there a little while to recover from the effort - position: 12
were even making the effort to carry him where he wanted to go; and - position: 5
to all the effort of pushing a chair to the window, climbing up onto - position: 4
required a great deal of effort and he was using his head to help - position: 6
to work.  he could not help panting loudly with the effort and had - position: 11
to make an effort to get over the shock caused by the cleaner before - position: 4
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread - position: 1
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up - position: 2

donations:
address specified in section 4, "information about donations to - position: 8
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from - position: 10
and how your efforts and donations can help, see sections 3 and 4 - position: 6
section 4.  information about donations to the project gutenberg - position: 5
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of - position: 5
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  many small donations - position: 9
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the united - position: 4
with these requirements.  we do not solicit donations in locations - position: 8
send donations or determine the status of compliance for any - position: 2
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who - position: 4
international donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make - position: 2
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from - position: 7
methods and addresses.  donations are accepted in a number of other - position: 4
donations.  to donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate - position: 1
including how to make donations to the project gutenberg literary - position: 5

facade:
line of windows piercing its facade; the rain was still - position: 6

play:
might take some of it into his mouth to play with it, leave it there - position: 10
like to come in and play for us here in the room, where it is, after - position: 6
his sister began to play; father and mother paid close attention, - position: 5

assailed:
floor, all these things made him feel as if he were being assailed - position: 13

force:
carelessly shoved himself forwards with all the force he could - position: 8
all his force out of the bed.  there was a loud thump, but it wasn't - position: 3
a steady and invisible force.  gregor's mother, her hair still - position: 5
the stairway as if out there, there were some supernatural force - position: 11
though, she had to be held back by force, which made her call out: - position: 9
fast to the glass and had to pull himself off by force; then he, - position: 12
thrown without much force glanced against gregor's back and slid off - position: 4
flat and force us to sleep on the streets.  father, look, just - position: 3

donate:
has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the - position: 4
approach us with offers to donate. - position: 6
donations.  to donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate - position: 3

comfortably:
sunshine, all to themselves.  leant back comfortably on their seats, - position: 7

train:
train connections, bad and irregular food, contact with different - position: 1
my train leaves at five." - position: 2
because of that.  what should he do now? the next train went at - position: 11
the train he would not avoid his boss's anger as the office - position: 2
assistant would have been there to see the five o'clock train go, he - position: 11
early train.  we don't know what to say to him.  and anyway, he - position: 2
me.  why else would gregor have missed a train! the lad only ever - position: 9
reads the paper or studies train timetables.  his idea of relaxation - position: 6
in.  i'll set off with the eight o'clock train, as well, these few - position: 9

dropped:
she quickly dropped it all into a bin, closed it with its wooden - position: 3

inherited:
with the nice furniture he had inherited? that would have let him - position: 7

cheaper:
smaller and cheaper than the current one which had been chosen by - position: 3

pitifully:
to slide off any moment.  his many legs, pitifully thin compared - position: 9

prevail:
repugnant conditions that prevail in this flat and with this family" - position: 4

unable:
this nonsense", he thought, but that was something he was unable to - position: 11
he was still hurriedly thinking all this through, unable to decide - position: 9
moving in different directions, and which he was moreover unable to - position: 10
room.  he was still occupied with this difficult movement, unable to - position: 10
then? it's quite possible for someone to be temporarily unable to - position: 10
that made her unable to speak straight away, "well then, that thing - position: 4

mild:
he began to feel a mild, dull pain there that he had never felt - position: 6

tax:
prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax - position: 10
state of mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the internal - position: 6
revenue service.  the foundation's ein or federal tax identification - position: 8
literary archive foundation are tax deductible to the full extent - position: 5
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt - position: 9
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from - position: 4

stored:
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain - position: 10

ever-present:
used to curse the ever-present view of the hospital across the - position: 5

gossip:
easily fall victim to gossip and chance and groundless complaints, - position: 5

changes:
stopped him eating, but he had soon got used to the changes made - position: 12

duties:
this just by the way - you fail to carry out your business duties in - position: 13

five:
money together to pay off my parents' debt to him - another five or - position: 12
my train leaves at five." - position: 5
assistant would have been there to see the five o'clock train go, he - position: 9
even though he had been living in it for five years.  hardly aware - position: 10
his business when it had collapsed five years earlier.  gregor heard - position: 7
and lacking in self confidence.  during the five years that he had - position: 8

beautifully:
was playing so beautifully.  her face was leant to one side, - position: 4

spots:
white spots which he didn't know what to make of; and when he tried - position: 2

moving:
hands were quietly moving forwards, it was even later than half - position: 4
moving in different directions, and which he was moreover unable to - position: 1
and thoughtfully, but without moving so that he would not miss any - position: 5
him like a wild man.  gregor had never had any practice in moving - position: 13
as he found no difficulty in moving.  this amazed him, as more than - position: 7
without, of course, moving it an inch.  his mother was not used to - position: 4
he was not able to prevent the sheet at its front from moving a - position: 13
was without moving as if the door had never even been opened.  if - position: 3
enjoy it although moving about in that way left him sad and tired to - position: 4
quickly moving toward.  under his sister's experienced hand, the - position: 2
easily by moving house; what they needed now was a flat that was - position: 3

foundation's:
revenue service.  the foundation's ein or federal tax identification - position: 4
the foundation's principal office is located at 4557 melan dr. s. - position: 2
information can be found at the foundation's web site and official - position: 7

thereby:
thereby brought gregor's father to a halt.  "i declare here and - position: 1

flowed:
from his mouth, flowed over the key and dripped onto the floor. - position: 4
more."  and she broke out so heavily in tears that they flowed down - position: 12
completely, and his last breath flowed weakly from his nostrils. - position: 6

splashed:
and looked at it and the few drops of milk splashed around it with - position: 11
gregor's face, some kind of caustic medicine splashed all over him; - position: 8

girl:
even though, before, they had seen her as a girl who was somewhat - position: 10

dreams:
one morning, when gregor samsa woke from troubled dreams, he found - position: 9
her.  and, as if in confirmation of their new dreams and good - position: 10

subordinates:
there at your desk, talking down at your subordinates from up there, - position: 9

let:
everything i would, let him know just what i feel.  he'd fall right - position: 4
fresh air it occurred to him that if he let himself fall it would be - position: 10
to let one of the trainees make enquiries - assuming enquiries were - position: 2
from the room on his right, gregor's sister whispered to him to let - position: 13
she crying? was it because he had not got up, and had not let the - position: 14
would seriously have expected him to let the chief clerk in.  it was - position: 7
it.  i don't know why i didn't let you know at work! but you always - position: 8
to open the door, really did want to let them see him and to speak - position: 9
but he no longer gave any attention to it.  now he let himself fall - position: 12
there he let go of it and threw himself onto the door, holding - position: 3
samples and set off.  will you please just let me leave? you can - position: 9
gregor realised that it was out of the question to let the chief - position: 11
be understood, he let go of the door; pushed himself through the - position: 4
gregor's mother to let her go without delay.  it was not very clear - position: 4
about it quite hard and decided he would let them know what he - position: 9
gregor would always first let go of the door and then throw himself - position: 5
"let me go and see gregor, he is my unfortunate son! can't you - position: 1
was alright; and only then did she let her mother enter.  gregor had - position: 8
with the nice furniture he had inherited? that would have let him - position: 11
crawl around unimpeded in any direction, but it would also have let - position: 12
so she refused to let her mother dissuade her.  gregor's mother - position: 5
himself, let the women take him to the door, send them off and carry - position: 2
playing here as much as he would.  he never wanted to let her out of - position: 12
this misfortune hadn't got in the way, and refuse to let anyone - position: 11
suddenly interrupted.  she had let her hands drop and let violin and - position: 5
suddenly interrupted.  she had let her hands drop and let violin and - position: 10
"maybe now they'll let me turn round", thought gregor and went back - position: 4

moved:
after a while he had already moved so far across that it would have - position: 7
while gregor was speaking, but moved steadily towards the door - position: 6
without taking his eyes off him.  he moved very gradually, as if - position: 8
hear his sister's sighs and appeals to the saints as she moved about - position: 12
happening, it was just a few pieces of furniture being moved after - position: 11
father stopped, scurried forwards again when he moved, even - position: 8
unless gregor made his way through the junk and moved it somewhere - position: 10
else.  at first he moved it because, with no other room free where - position: 5
gregor as he slowly moved forward.  the violin went silent, the - position: 5
their arms like he had, tugged excitedly at their beards and moved - position: 12
gentlemen had moved in; she was fully dressed as if she had never - position: 3

deeper:
on him.  he would just sink deeper into his chair.  only when the - position: 7

future:
of any thought for the future.  gregor, though, did think about the - position: 6
future.  the chief clerk had to be held back, calmed down, convinced - position: 1
and finally won over; the future of gregor and his family depended - position: 6
and held particularly good promise for the future.  the greatest - position: 8
and help preserve free future access to project gutenberg-tm electronic - position: 5
and permanent future for project gutenberg-tm and future generations. - position: 3
and permanent future for project gutenberg-tm and future generations. - position: 8

stay:
himself out now at any price; better to stay in bed than lose - position: 9
was not possible for him to stay in bed and that the most sensible - position: 7
stay there even for the short time that his sister was in the room, - position: 1
cold, she would stay at the window breathing deeply for a little - position: 4
and noise making; he would stay under the couch shivering the whole - position: 6
should be removed; everything had to stay; he could not do without - position: 7
could do without if he had to, but the writing desk had to stay. - position: 14
stay with his mother; there was nothing for him to do but wait; and, - position: 1
sister should not be forced to stay with him, though, but stay of - position: 7
sister should not be forced to stay with him, though, but stay of - position: 12
chair as if more willing to sacrifice her own mother than stay - position: 12

rolled:
himself onto his right, he always rolled back to where he was.  he - position: 7
down and rolled in front of him.  it was an apple; then another one - position: 3
after another.  these little, red apples rolled about on the floor, - position: 7

costs:
in a position to bear the costs of the whole family, and did bear - position: 7
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal - position: 6
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees, - position: 5

narrow:
unfortunately, even the other side of the narrow street was - position: 8
front of the doorway, but then saw that it was too narrow, and his - position: 12
could hardly breathe in that narrow space.  half suffocating, he - position: 6

swishing:
and the two girls, their skirts swishing, immediately ran out - position: 7

clumsily:
dark.  he pushed himself over to the door, feeling his way clumsily - position: 12

appearing:
with the phrase "project gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the - position: 9

packed:
the collection of samples was still not packed, and he did not at - position: 8

patch:
one side, saw the enormous brown patch against the flowers of the - position: 7

avoid:
the train he would not avoid his boss's anger as the office - position: 6
probably avoid injuring it.  his back seemed to be quite hard, and - position: 2
consideration for his parents, gregor wanted to avoid being seen at - position: 8

closing:
anger that no-one had even thought of closing the door to save him - position: 8
"if he could just understand us", repeated gregor's father, closing - position: 10

keys:
during the day, no-one came, and the keys were in the other sides. - position: 8

shall:
carrying her.  "what shall we take now, then?", said grete and - position: 4
let's forget about all that old stuff, shall we.  come and give me a - position: 8
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be - position: 11
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions. - position: 5

accusations:
accusations you're making; nobody's ever said a word to me about any - position: 1

show:
they have to show the whole, innocent family that this was so - position: 4
something to show that you grant that i'm at least partly right!" - position: 3
time being he must remain calm, he must show patience and the - position: 9
wanted to show gregor that you need teeth in order to eat and it was - position: 3
way forward to his sister and tug at her skirt to show her she might - position: 12

peg:
uniform off even at home; while his nightgown hung unused on its peg - position: 13

muffled:
made the sound muffled and not too noticeable.  he had not held his - position: 4

financial:
volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the - position: 3

rage:
mood to look after his family, he was filled with simple rage about - position: 12

bone:
the charwoman was here.  this elderly widow, with a robust bone - position: 11

stamped:
turned his head his father merely stamped his foot all the harder. - position: 7
the three gentlemen shouted like thunder and stamped his foot and - position: 8

cashier:
again, a cashier from a hat shop for whom his attention had been - position: 3

contact:
train connections, bad and irregular food, contact with different - position: 7
hart, the owner of the project gutenberg-tm trademark.  contact the - position: 9
business@pglaf.org.  email contact links and up to date contact - position: 3
business@pglaf.org.  email contact links and up to date contact - position: 9
for additional contact information: - position: 3

sacrifice:
whatever sacrifice.  at the same time, though, he did not forget to - position: 2
chair as if more willing to sacrifice her own mother than stay - position: 7

directly:
although gregor wasn't able to hear any news directly he did listen - position: 9
that was the first word she had spoken to him directly since his - position: 11
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do - position: 3

companions:
companions around him.  he was standing up straight enough now; - position: 1
said", answered  mr. samsa, and, with his two companions, went in a - position: 9

lift:
towards the headboard so that he could lift his head better; found - position: 8
he was no longer able to lift his head, but he nonetheless felt - position: 7
lift himself up carefully as if he were carrying the greatest load - position: 1

covers:
it was a simple matter to throw off the covers; he only had to blow - position: 10
pillows and covers on the beds flew up and were put into order and - position: 3

compressed:
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any - position: 1

linked:
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  additional terms will be linked - position: 11

likes:
office.  i know that nobody likes the travellers.  they think we - position: 6

rubbing:
hallway; his two friends had stopped rubbing their hands some time - position: 7

arc:
bank, and threw it in an arc right across the room onto the sofa, - position: 7

blew:
especially unnerving, the way they all blew the smoke from their - position: 7

ability:
ability to see anything - her hands behind his father's head begging - position: 1

likely:
and the hand that held it.  the woman most likely meant to fetch the - position: 10

ebooks:
charge for the ebooks, unless you receive specific permission.  if you - position: 4
practically anything with public domain ebooks.  redistribution is - position: 6
gutenberg-tm ebooks with only a loose network of volunteer support. - position: 2
project gutenberg-tm ebooks are often created from several printed - position: 3
keep ebooks in compliance with any particular paper edition. - position: 2
archive foundation, how to help produce our new ebooks, and how to - position: 9
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new ebooks. - position: 10

sense:
stare out of it.  he had used to feel a great sense of freedom from - position: 12

related:
unlike anything experienced by anyone else they knew or were related - position: 11

one:
one morning, when gregor samsa woke from troubled dreams, he found - position: 1
to feel the place with one of his legs he drew it quickly back - position: 6
knocking at one of the side doors, gently, but with his fist. - position: 3
control.  if he wanted to bend one of them, then that was the first - position: 7
one that would stretch itself out; and if he finally managed to do - position: 1
chief clerk himself.  why did gregor have to be the only one - position: 12
one of them, louts, was there not one of them who was faithful and - position: 1
one of them, louts, was there not one of them who was faithful and - position: 8
to let one of the trainees make enquiries - assuming enquiries were - position: 3
slid down again, but he finally gave himself one last swing and - position: 9
achievements - although he did not really distinguish one from the - position: 8
around one of the double doors, and he had to do it very carefully - position: 2
which he leant over to one side as he peered out at the others. - position: 6
ground one at a time.  the washing up from breakfast lay on the - position: 2
"now, then", said gregor, well aware that he was the only one to - position: 12
now more than one father behind him; it was not a pleasant - position: 4
regard for what might happen.  one side of his body lifted itself, - position: 6
he lay at an angle in the doorway, one flank scraped on the white - position: 9
by himself, the little legs along one side hung quivering in the air - position: 7
left side seemed like one, painfully stretched scar,  and he limped - position: 5
badly on his two rows of legs.  one of the legs had been badly - position: 8
only one of them had been - and dragged along lifelessly. - position: 2
once during that long evening, the door on one side of the room was - position: 9
one of the doors and the other had clearly been unlocked some time - position: 1
newspaper.  quickly one after another, his eyes watering with - position: 3
gregor often heard how one of them would unsuccessfully urge another - position: 5
perhaps, one or two years, no more.  that's to say, it was money - position: 2
one day, about a month after gregor's transformation when his sister - position: 1
protruded from under the couch.  one day, in order to spare her even - position: 6
gratitude one time when he carefully looked out from under the sheet - position: 2
of course, but one day a week, perhaps; she could understand - position: 4
be better to leave the chest where it was, for one thing it was too - position: 11
even more for him.  grete would probably be the only one who would - position: 11
one side, saw the enormous brown patch against the flowers of the - position: 1
down and rolled in front of him.  it was an apple; then another one - position: 14
now, without even taking the time for careful aim, threw one apple - position: 11
without doing any harm.  another one however, immediately following - position: 6
skirts unfastened and sliding one after another to the ground, - position: 5
he got into the habit of closely watching it for one or two hours - position: 11
look at them one after the other and say: "what a life! this is what - position: 4
friends from other businesses, one of the chambermaids from a - position: 5
went into one of the worst of these places when his sister arrived - position: 3
her long life, wasn't really repelled by gregor.  just by chance one - position: 12
like it! one day, early in the morning while a heavy rain struck the - position: 3
just lifted up one of the chairs from near the door and stood there - position: 4
such things as one of the rooms in the flat had been rented out to - position: 4
one day - were painfully insistent on things' being tidy.  this - position: 1
throw everything out in one go, but what actually happened was that - position: 5
corner.  one time, though, the charwoman left the door to the living - position: 2
the gentlemen stood as one, and mumbled something into their beards. - position: 5
one in the middle had produced a newspaper, given a page to each of - position: 1
though, was offered a seat by one of the gentlemen and sat - leaving - position: 7
one on each side, to the movements of her hands.  drawn in by the - position: 1
was playing so beautifully.  her face was leant to one side, - position: 10
uniform with his wife on one arm and his daughter on the other.  all - position: 6
smaller and cheaper than the current one which had been chosen by - position: 7
gregor, one that was in a better location and, most of all, more - position: 2
one owns a united states copyright in these works, so the foundation - position: 1
this particular work is one of the few copyrighted individual works - position: 5

constant:
a constant state of change.  if you are outside the united states, check - position: 2

foods:
compellingly, attracted him much more than the other foods on the - position: 9
fresh foods, on the other hand, he didn't like at all, and even - position: 2

nearer:
way up and came nearer than they were,  mr. samsa and the women came - position: 5

describing:
writing;  mr. samsa saw that the cleaner wanted to start describing - position: 11

prominently:
access to, the full project gutenberg-tm license must appear prominently - position: 10
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.e.1 with - position: 1

donation:
please check the project gutenberg web pages for current donation - position: 10

sadly:
frequent, she would often say, sadly, "now everything's just been - position: 6

besides:
this job would provide for gregor for his entire life, and besides, - position: 12
had accumulated.  besides that, they had not been using up all the - position: 3

hanging:
how nice it is; it's hanging up in his room; you'll see it as soon - position: 6
fond of hanging from the ceiling; it was quite different from lying - position: 3

1.e:
works.  see paragraph 1.e below. - position: 4
1.e.  unless you have removed all references to project gutenberg: - position: 1

cried:
ill and we're making him suffer.  grete! grete!" she then cried. - position: 11
gregor", they should have cried, "keep at it, keep hold of the - position: 5

bread:
sweetened milk with little pieces of white bread floating in it.  he - position: 8
inedible two days before; a dry roll and some bread spread with - position: 10

drank:
or something similar.  no-one drank very much either.  his sister - position: 5

ancient:
ancient invalid and it took him long, long minutes to crawl across - position: 1

sound:
made the sound muffled and not too noticeable.  he had not held his - position: 3
was no sound of the door banging shut again; they must have left it - position: 3
sound.  they had realised, though, that there was something wrong - position: 1
care to do this not too loudly as even this might well sound - position: 13
again with the whole weight of his body as needed.  the clear sound - position: 13
some hurried steps and the sound of the door leading into the front - position: 6
a sound to be heard.  gregor's sister would often write and tell him - position: 2

laughed:
was so pleased he almost laughed, as he was even hungrier than he - position: 6

spare:
gregor, though, had no time to spare for his parents now; the chief - position: 7
sister wanted to spare them what distress she could as they were - position: 4
spare him this ordeal, but it was impossible for her to be in the - position: 1
protruded from under the couch.  one day, in order to spare her even - position: 11
him to spare gregor's life. - position: 3

friendly:
become friendly with them.  it can all go to hell!"  he felt a - position: 2
catch a friendly comment, or at least a comment that could be - position: 3
construed as friendly.  "he's enjoyed his dinner today", she might - position: 3
probably considered friendly, such as "come on then, you old - position: 3
respect for.  "yes", she answered, and broke into a friendly laugh - position: 10

touched:
because as soon as he touched it he was overcome by a cold shudder. - position: 6
had not even touched at all as if it could not be used any more. - position: 4
a lot, but it had not been touched in the meantime and some interest - position: 8
that should not really be touched but set aside for emergencies; - position: 6

photograph:
photograph of gregor when he was a lieutenant in the army, his sword - position: 1

indicate:
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to - position: 4

distinct:
less distinct every day, even things that were quite near; he had - position: 2

recommendation:
doctor's recommendation not to make any claim as the doctor believed - position: 2

asked:
now then?", asked his father impatiently, knocking at the door - position: 3
"did you understand a word of all that?" the chief clerk asked his - position: 12
happened, even though no-one had asked that of her. - position: 6
anything different, and gregor had never asked him about it anyway. - position: 7
had even asked to be allowed to keep the kitchen locked at all times - position: 3
"aren't you coming any closer, then?", she asked when gregor turned - position: 8
knowing it.  they asked gregor's father for explanations, raised - position: 4
"what now, then?", gregor asked himself as he looked round in the - position: 5
when the cleaner came in early in the morning - they'd often asked - position: 12
"dead?", asked  mrs. samsa, looking at the charwoman enquiringly, - position: 2
"where is our breakfast?", the middle gentleman asked the cleaner - position: 8
without letting the women from him.  "what do you mean?", asked the - position: 11
in irritation.  "well?", asked  mr. samsa.  the charwoman stood in - position: 4
good news to report, but would only do it if she was clearly asked - position: 14
you want then?", asked  mrs. samsa, whom the cleaner had the most - position: 4
they were not at all bad - until then they had never asked each - position: 12

accessed:
gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed, - position: 5

lieutenant:
photograph of gregor when he was a lieutenant in the army, his sword - position: 8

flying:
released him from where he was held and sent him flying, and heavily - position: 11

yearning:
nourishment he had been yearning for.  he was determined to make his - position: 5

array:
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  many small donations - position: 1

expectations:
their expectations was still at home, and soon his father came - position: 2

bent:
and his sister would not be able to see him even if she bent down. - position: 14
only because her mother was there, she remained calm, bent her face - position: 10
would urge each other to be quiet; his mother, bent deeply under the - position: 10
filled the room with its smell.  the gentlemen bent over the dishes - position: 9
ear bent down to him while he told her how he had always intended to - position: 2
that's all been sorted out."   mrs. samsa and grete bent down over - position: 10

agent:
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the foundation, anyone - position: 4

waste:
in private, but since you cause me to waste my time here for no good - position: 9
looking out the window at a barren waste where the grey sky and the - position: 8
whistled to herself, but did not waste time to yank open the bedroom - position: 7

spokesman:
idea, not without reason, that she was gregor's spokesman to his - position: 9

others:
what he wanted with that leg, all the others seemed to be set free - position: 9
so why did his sister not go and join the others? she had probably - position: 11
him and crying.  but the others didn't know what was happening, they - position: 6
with the chief clerk; the others were being so insistent, and he was - position: 6
which he leant over to one side as he peered out at the others. - position: 14
with strangers and others he had forgotten, but instead of helping - position: 4
the others, and now they leant back in their chairs reading them and - position: 2
become so thoughtless about the others.  what's more, there was now - position: 6
gutenberg-tm license when you share it without charge with others. - position: 10

affairs:
think of taking over the family's affairs, just like before, the - position: 7

remarkable:
seemed remarkable to gregor that above all the various noises of - position: 2

tortured:
to be tortured like this, we can't endure it.  i can't endure it any - position: 3

carrying:
this sight, he spent four hours carrying the bedsheet over to the - position: 7
carrying her.  "what shall we take now, then?", said grete and - position: 1
lift himself up carefully as if he were carrying the greatest load - position: 9

lips:
speak, and, with protruding lips, only stared back at him over his - position: 5
irritably.  she just put her finger on her lips and made a quick and - position: 9

invisible:
a steady and invisible force.  gregor's mother, her hair still - position: 4

mistake:
hissing, he made a mistake and turned himself back a little the way - position: 5

beards:
full beards, as gregor learned peering through the crack in the door - position: 2
the gentlemen stood as one, and mumbled something into their beards. - position: 11
their arms like he had, tugged excitedly at their beards and moved - position: 10

shop:
lamp, would sew fancy underwear for a fashion shop; his sister, who - position: 9
again, a cashier from a hat shop for whom his attention had been - position: 7

groundless:
easily fall victim to gossip and chance and groundless complaints, - position: 9

joining:
joining in with a few modest pleasures and most of all playing the - position: 1

started:
but the chief clerk had turned away as soon as gregor had started to - position: 13
think about too much, so he started to move about, crawling up and - position: 7
possible.  so then he started working especially hard, with a fiery - position: 5
that he started to move toward her, he was slow and infirm, but it - position: 3

remembered:
lying in bed.  he remembered that he had often felt a slight pain in - position: 5
doing this, but doing it now was obviously something more remembered - position: 11
them all about it, she suddenly remembered what a hurry she was in - position: 7

uncontrolled:
out for his usual evening nap but from the uncontrolled way his head - position: 10

extremely:
would be extremely strained and suspicious as in fifteen years of - position: 3
not her bare hands - and carried it out.  gregor was extremely - position: 11
life, that his father thought it necessary to always be extremely - position: 11

calmed:
it with his little legs.  by now he had also calmed down, and kept - position: 11
future.  the chief clerk had to be held back, calmed down, convinced - position: 10

swing:
slid down again, but he finally gave himself one last swing and - position: 11
swing to it; and up there, relaxed and almost happy, it might happen - position: 1

promoting:
to protect the project gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free - position: 8
gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by - position: 4

several:
stretch it out for several hours as he sat reading a number of - position: 5
expected something, as he leapt down several steps at once and - position: 7
when explaining things, his father repeated himself several times, - position: 8
slightly.  in this way they went round the room several times - position: 10
hoped for, that several items of jewellery belonging to the family - position: 4
thoroughly clean his room, and needed to use several bucketfuls of - position: 9
do several times a day.  and despite this condition, he was not too - position: 2
and briefly nodded to him several times.  at that, and without - position: 6
project gutenberg-tm ebooks are often created from several printed - position: 8

dare:
able to do by herself; she did not dare to ask for help from her - position: 9
dare enter a room dominated by gregor crawling about the bare walls - position: 1
courtesy towards the three gentlemen, did not even dare to sit on - position: 9

resentful:
speak to him in that way once again.  gregor was so resentful of it - position: 12

charlottenstrasse:
that he lived in charlottenstrasse, which was a quiet street despite - position: 5

love:
all, much more cosy and comfortable?"  "oh yes, we'd love to", - position: 10
he thought back of his family with emotion and love.  if it was - position: 10

learn:
reason i don't see why your parents should not also learn of it. - position: 11
curious to learn what they would say when they caught sight of him. - position: 3
with his antennae - of which he was now beginning to learn the value - position: 11
to learn more about the project gutenberg literary archive foundation - position: 2

step:
each step his father took he had to carry out countless movements. - position: 2

continued:
continued to speak through the door.  "he isn't well, please believe - position: 1
bow hang limply for a while but continued to look at the music as if - position: 8

comes:
way it was before so that when gregor comes back to us again he'll - position: 9

boy:
boy, proud of posture with his tray on his head, passed them on his - position: 1

livelier:
practical.  all the time, grete was becoming livelier.  with all the - position: 8

fog:
enveloped in morning fog and the view had little confidence or cheer - position: 4
clock struck again, "seven o'clock, and there's still a fog like - position: 10

armchair:
trips, who would receive him sitting in the armchair in his - position: 9

good:
sure he'll be good enough to forgive the untidiness of your room." - position: 4
then the chief clerk called "good morning,  mr. samsa". "he isn't - position: 6
in private, but since you cause me to waste my time here for no good - position: 15
it's not the time of year to do especially good business, we - position: 10
i'll be in the office soon after you, and please be so good as to - position: 13
to see his good intentions as he did nothing to hinder him, in fact - position: 4
good to eat.  however, his sister noticed the full dish immediately - position: 1
of the first good news that gregor heard since he had first been - position: 4
benefit of his astonished and delighted family.  they had been good - position: 11
the good influence the furniture had on his condition; and if the - position: 2
the two women's intentions were good.  he had nearly forgotten they - position: 6
against its glass, it held him firmly and felt good on his hot - position: 10
quiet, maybe that was a good sign.  then there was someone at the - position: 6
his good intention and had only been alarmed briefly.  now they all - position: 2
good news to report, but would only do it if she was clearly asked - position: 1
other about their work but all three had jobs which were very good - position: 13
and held particularly good promise for the future.  the greatest - position: 4
it they agreed that it would soon be time to find a good man for - position: 13
her.  and, as if in confirmation of their new dreams and good - position: 12

shudder:
because as soon as he touched it he was overcome by a cold shudder. - position: 14

aside:
the dish, which had probably been permanently set aside for gregor's - position: 9
that should not really be touched but set aside for emergencies; - position: 9

occur:
his present mood, it obviously did not occur to his father to open - position: 8
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any project gutenberg-tm - position: 4

cosy:
all, much more cosy and comfortable?"  "oh yes, we'd love to", - position: 4

among:
better.  he felt that he had been drawn back in among people, and - position: 11

animal:
gregor spoke just now?"  "that was the voice of an animal", said the - position: 11
chance came.  was he an animal if music could captivate him so? it - position: 6
possible for human beings to live with an animal like that and he - position: 9
him with respect.  as it is this animal is persecuting us, it's - position: 8

withdraw:
the key in the lock as a sign to him that he should withdraw.  he - position: 14

price:
himself out now at any price; better to stay in bed than lose - position: 6
listening to the evening conversation about what price they had - position: 8

potatoes:
with a dish piled high with potatoes.  the food was steaming, and - position: 7

carved:
were concealed behind carefully carved furniture full of notches and - position: 5

imploring:
room where, despite her mothers raised and imploring hands, she - position: 8

tidied:
exact position by the window after she had tidied up the room, and - position: 9
gregor's room while his sister tidied up in there, and as soon as - position: 6

without:
the first thing he wanted to do was to get up in peace without being - position: 14
gregor to himself; but without daring to raise his voice loud enough - position: 5
and thoughtfully, but without moving so that he would not miss any - position: 4
think you can get over an illness without staying at home.  please, - position: 8
without travelling i couldn't earn my living.  so where are you - position: 1
the harmful effects of what's been going on without even knowing - position: 9
without taking his eyes off him.  he moved very gradually, as if - position: 1
have to do the job himself.  and without considering that he still - position: 8
down on it without knowing what she was doing; without even seeming - position: 4
down on it without knowing what she was doing; without even seeming - position: 10
body was too broad to get through it without further difficulty.  in - position: 9
experience, and gregor pushed himself into the doorway without - position: 9
gregor's mother to let her go without delay.  it was not very clear - position: 7
should be removed; everything had to stay; he could not do without - position: 12
idea, not without reason, that she was gregor's spokesman to his - position: 3
could do without if he had to, but the writing desk had to stay. - position: 3
without, of course, moving it an inch.  his mother was not used to - position: 1
now, without delaying any longer, grete took hold of all the bottles - position: 2
back into his room without delay, that it would not be necessary to - position: 5
without anything decisive happening, without even giving the - position: 1
without anything decisive happening, without even giving the - position: 5
now, without even taking the time for careful aim, threw one apple - position: 2
thrown without much force glanced against gregor's back and slid off - position: 2
without doing any harm.  another one however, immediately following - position: 1
without his sister doing anything about it; she could see the dirt - position: 1
was without moving as if the door had never even been opened.  if - position: 2
all, often failed to make use of it when it was open and, without - position: 14
had kept free without any necklace or collar. - position: 4
pointing, without wasting any more words, with his forefinger at - position: 2
they had had a neighbour like gregor in the next room without - position: 12
state a little while before and almost without noticing it.  he - position: 8
window too.  then, without his willing it, his head sank down - position: 4
it even without checking.  "that's what i said",  replied the - position: 3
but not without looking back at the body.  the cleaner shut the door - position: 3
without letting the women from him.  "what do you mean?", asked the - position: 1
and briefly nodded to him several times.  at that, and without - position: 11
from the stand, took their sticks from the holder, bowed without a - position: 11
without looking up from what they were writing, and it was only when - position: 1
quieter.  just from each other's glance and almost without knowing - position: 9
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the united states without - position: 12
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  special rules, - position: 3
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  see - position: 2
gutenberg-tm license when you share it without charge with others. - position: 7
and distributed to anyone in the united states without paying any fees - position: 9
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without - position: 10
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further - position: 11
project gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide - position: 8

subdued:
subdued voice, and openly pressed her face into his chest: "mother's - position: 1

school--he:
infant school--he really could not wait any longer to see whether - position: 2

always:
himself onto his right, he always rolled back to where he was.  he - position: 6
to copy out the contract, these gentlemen are always still sitting - position: 9
bed, perhaps caused by lying awkwardly, but that had always turned - position: 10
it.  i don't know why i didn't let you know at work! but you always - position: 15
hopes which, however, always led to the same conclusion: for the - position: 4
about the same subject as there were always at least two members of - position: 8
gregor would always first let go of the door and then throw himself - position: 3
notice the chair twice before she would always push it back to its - position: 8
pushed it from its place, his sister always taking on the heaviest - position: 8
expected", said his father, "just as i always said, but you women - position: 8
his overcoat between gregor and his mother, would always labour his - position: 9
life, that his father thought it necessary to always be extremely - position: 9
course, the ones that gregor always thought about with longing when - position: 6
always ready to serve and expecting to hear the voice of his - position: 1
this coat, with its gold buttons always kept polished and shiny, - position: 7
been in work he had become more obstinate and would always insist on - position: 11
their way in there too.  the charwoman was always in a hurry, and - position: 9
ear bent down to him while he told her how he had always intended to - position: 13

hostile:
her breast.  his father looked hostile, and clenched his fists as if - position: 6

marked:
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any - position: 2
returns.  royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and - position: 7

disconcerted:
middle of the three gentlemen somewhat disconcerted, and he smiled - position: 7

dr:
the foundation's principal office is located at 4557 melan dr. s. - position: 10
dr. gregory b. newby - position: 1

locations:
throughout numerous locations.  its business office is located at - position: 3
with these requirements.  we do not solicit donations in locations - position: 10

latest:
of these things.  maybe you haven't read the latest contracts i sent - position: 9

shortcoming:
suspicious at the slightest shortcoming? were all employees, every - position: 5

discovery:
darkness.  he soon made the discovery that he could no longer move - position: 6

certainty:
certainty. - position: 1
his eyes in acceptance of his sister's certainty that that was quite - position: 8

suffocating:
could hardly breathe in that narrow space.  half suffocating, he - position: 9
hurriedly open almost as if she were suffocating.  even if it was - position: 8

promotion:
promotion and distribution of project gutenberg-tm electronic works, - position: 1

scalp:
scalp.  he took his cap, with its gold monogram from, probably, some - position: 1

chilly:
across the room, despite the chilly weather, gregor's mother had - position: 6

helplessly:
with the size of the rest of him, waved about helplessly as he - position: 11

leaning:
the sill and, propped up in the chair, leaning on the window to - position: 9

ten:
time was now ten past seven and he would have to make a final - position: 4
as soon as it struck ten, gregor's mother would speak gently to his - position: 6

advice:
mother's advice now was sufficient reason for her to insist on - position: 2

run:
he looked back for the last time.  gregor made a run for him; he - position: 11
his sister her pen so that they could run after his father and - position: 9

complaint:
complaint was that although the flat was much too big for their - position: 1

meanwhile:
he could judge this for himself.  meanwhile, it had become very - position: 7
meanwhile the day had become much lighter; part of the endless, - position: 1
back towards their room only very slowly.  meanwhile gregor's sister - position: 8

suitable:
only a minor discourtesy, and a suitable excuse could easily be - position: 7
in some other food that was more suitable? if she didn't do it - position: 8
would have been quite easy to transport him in any suitable crate - position: 11

provision:
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions. - position: 1

turning:
first, carefully turning his head to the side.  this he managed - position: 3
involved and then set himself to the task of turning the key in the - position: 10
he really was able to start the key turning, ignoring the fact that - position: 9
"listen", said the chief clerk in the next room, "he's turning the - position: 11
he had nearly finished turning round, still listening to that - position: 5
startling as his pain-wracked condition meant that turning round - position: 8
finished turning round he began to move straight ahead.  he was - position: 2

nuisance:
success with that she tried to make a nuisance of herself and poked - position: 9

$5,000:
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt - position: 3

tremendous:
the doorway with a smile on her face as if she had some tremendous - position: 14

copyrighted:
** this is a copyrighted project gutenberg ebook, details below ** - position: 5
this particular work is one of the few copyrighted individual works - position: 9

result:
as a result of this it slowly became even shabbier despite the - position: 3

premises:
word and left the premises.  mr. samsa and the two women followed - position: 5

large:
falling, now throwing down large, individual droplets which hit the - position: 5
and overcoat), picked up a large newspaper from the table with his - position: 6
the large amount of sewing work she did.  gregor even learned, - position: 2

sword:
photograph of gregor when he was a lieutenant in the army, his sword - position: 13

pleased:
he had just come.  he was pleased when he finally had his head in - position: 7
was so pleased he almost laughed, as he was even hungrier than he - position: 3

goodness:
sister, in her goodness, actually did bring.  in order to test his - position: 4

shocked:
shocked when he heard his own voice answering, it could hardly be - position: 1
if they were shocked then it would no longer be gregor's - position: 4
of his shocked state.  but his sister was not there, gregor would - position: 3
shocked that she lost control of herself and slammed the door shut - position: 1
no longer had any particular reason to be shocked at his appearance, - position: 9

2005:
release date: august 16, 2005 [ebook #5200] - position: 5

fools:
parents, "surely he's not trying to make fools of us". "oh, god!" - position: 8

word:
long pauses between each, individual word.  his father went back to - position: 6
word of the conversation.  "well i can't think of any other way of - position: 1
entrusted to you - but i came near to giving him my word of honour - position: 12
accusations you're making; nobody's ever said a word to me about any - position: 8
"did you understand a word of all that?" the chief clerk asked his - position: 5
that was the first word she had spoken to him directly since his - position: 5
there was not a word, not any cry, from his family to distract him. - position: 5
word and left the premises.  mr. samsa and the two women followed - position: 1
word processing or hypertext form.  however, if you provide access to or - position: 1

establishment:
this establishment, in the entire flat and especially in the - position: 2

1.e.2:
1.e.2.  if an individual project gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived - position: 1

interpreted:
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by - position: 1

seem:
suddenly seem to be showing off with peculiar whims.  this morning, - position: 2
taking the furniture away, won't it seem like we're showing that - position: 7
situation seem even more shocking than it was so that she could do - position: 2
the cleaner still did not seem to want to leave that they looked up - position: 6

superior:
superior even here.  the uniform had not been new to start with, but - position: 1

barricade:
"what is wrong? you barricade yourself in your room, give us no more - position: 5

writing:
could do without if he had to, but the writing desk had to stay. - position: 10
now they threatened to remove the writing desk with its place - position: 7
while they were writing to tell them she was going, she'd finished - position: 4
without looking up from what they were writing, and it was only when - position: 8
writing;  mr. samsa saw that the cleaner wanted to start describing - position: 1
you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he - position: 3
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from - position: 10
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further - position: 10

mean:
not said enough and that his father took it to mean that something - position: 11
without letting the women from him.  "what do you mean?", asked the - position: 10
quarrel which could only end in their favour.  "i mean just what i - position: 10

michael:
both the project gutenberg literary archive foundation and michael - position: 9
professor michael s. hart is the originator of the project gutenberg-tm - position: 2

dirty:
especially if it was dirty.  they had moreover brought most of their - position: 5

home:
takes much more effort than doing your own business at home, and on - position: 11
their expectations was still at home, and soon his father came - position: 6
at home. - position: 2
stayed home every evening.  he sits with us in the kitchen and just - position: 2
think you can get over an illness without staying at home.  please, - position: 11
we arrive back home exhausted from a trip, and that's when we feel - position: 4
such a nice home for his sister and parents.  but what now, if all - position: 4
the family at home - nobody wanted to be at home by themselves and - position: 4
the family at home - nobody wanted to be at home by themselves and - position: 10
straight into cash that he could lay on the table at home for the - position: 12
money that gregor had been bringing home every month, keeping only a - position: 7
just to move about the home, every other day would be spent - position: 6
home and leaving it in the middle of the room it would be in his way - position: 1
home.  "what's happened?" were his first words; grete's appearance - position: 1
uniform off even at home; while his nightgown hung unused on its peg - position: 5
his sister arrived home in the evening than she noticed the change - position: 4
meal at home in the living room that was used by everyone, and so - position: 3
coming.  we can't all work as hard as we have to and then come home - position: 15
"leave my home.  now!", said  mr. samsa, indicating the door and - position: 3

necessarily:
unless a copyright notice is included.  thus, we do not necessarily - position: 11

business:
chosen! travelling day in and day out.  doing business like this - position: 9
takes much more effort than doing your own business at home, and on - position: 9
off his desk! and it's a funny sort of business to be sitting up - position: 10
hours in the morning on company business? was it really not enough - position: 7
thinks about the business.  it nearly makes me cross the way he - position: 4
business considerations."  "can the chief clerk come in to see you - position: 1
this just by the way - you fail to carry out your business duties in - position: 12
it's not the time of year to do especially good business, we - position: 11
business at all,  mr. samsa, we cannot allow there to be." - position: 1
his business when it had collapsed five years earlier.  gregor heard - position: 2
remained from his father's business, at least he had never told him - position: 5
their business misfortune had reduced the family to a state of total - position: 2
of wearing nice clothes, sleeping late, helping out in the business, - position: 11
as a business trainee, at high school, even while he had been at - position: 3
there entombed in his bed when gregor came back from his business - position: 12
throughout numerous locations.  its business office is located at - position: 5

dung-beetle:
dung-beetle!", or "look at the old dung-beetle there!"  gregor never - position: 1
dung-beetle!", or "look at the old dung-beetle there!"  gregor never - position: 7

concept:
protect the project gutenberg-tm concept and trademark.  project - position: 5
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared - position: 1

jaw:
was, of course, made up for with a very strong jaw; using the jaw, - position: 11
was, of course, made up for with a very strong jaw; using the jaw, - position: 14

entirely:
more, would he have been entirely wrong in this case? gregor did in - position: 6
it was out of the question to leave the flat entirely empty.  and on - position: 11
gregor had almost entirely stopped eating.  only if he happened to - position: 4
inflamed area around it, which was entirely covered in white dust. - position: 7

kafka:
the project gutenberg ebook of metamorphosis, by franz kafka - position: 9
author: franz kafka - position: 3
franz kafka - position: 2
end of the project gutenberg ebook of metamorphosis, by franz kafka - position: 11

closed:
opened very slightly and hurriedly closed again; later on the door - position: 6
she quickly dropped it all into a bin, closed it with its wooden - position: 9
how he opened the complicated lock and then closed it again after he - position: 9
same room with him with the windows closed. - position: 8
closed the door behind her, a stranger would have thought he had - position: 1
closed and refusing to get up.  gregor's mother would tug at his - position: 1
the door to this room was often kept closed in the evening.  but - position: 9
nearly closed with exhaustion; his sister sat next to his father - position: 2

mixed:
him, there was a painful and uncontrollable squeaking mixed in with - position: 9
serious but too slow, - all of them appeared to him, mixed together - position: 11
morning the fresh air had something of warmth mixed in with it.  it - position: 9

crawled:
from the dish and crawled back into the centre of the room. - position: 5
all, left traces of the adhesive from his feet as he crawled about - - position: 12
he crawled over everything, walls, furniture, ceiling, and finally - position: 2
expression.  gregor crawled a little further forward, keeping his - position: 3

filled:
something to eat.  by the door there was a dish filled with - position: 11
had filled his pockets with fruit from the bowl on the sideboard and - position: 2
mood to look after his family, he was filled with simple rage about - position: 9
filled the room with its smell.  the gentlemen bent over the dishes - position: 1
open country outside the town.  they had the tram, filled with warm - position: 10

known:
street, but now he could not see it at all, and if he had not known - position: 16
even though she could have checked for herself and could have known - position: 12

possibilities:
wildest possibilities, but he never could have guessed what his - position: 2

strict:
strict with him.  and so he ran up to his father, stopped when his - position: 1
fees.  you agree that you have no remedies for negligence, strict - position: 11

lacking:
and lacking in self confidence.  during the five years that he had - position: 2

arduous:
like to do my job; being a commercial traveller is arduous but - position: 11

curse:
top of that there's the curse of travelling, worries about making - position: 6
used to curse the ever-present view of the hospital across the - position: 3

seeming:
down on it without knowing what she was doing; without even seeming - position: 12

dishes:
filled the room with its smell.  the gentlemen bent over the dishes - position: 12

http://gutenberg.net/license:
http://gutenberg.net/license). - position: 1

cough:
cough dully, her hand held out in front of her and a deranged - position: 1

eat:
something to eat.  by the door there was a dish filled with - position: 3
left side make it difficult to eat the food - he was only able to - position: 7
eat if his whole body worked together as a snuffling whole - but the - position: 1
good to eat.  however, his sister noticed the full dish immediately - position: 3
gregor's feelings, as she knew that he would not eat in front of - position: 10
eat.  what's more, his injuries must already have completely healed - position: 1
dragged the things he did want to eat a little way away from them - position: 8
to eat, and receive no more answer than "no thanks, i've had enough" - position: 2
wanted to show gregor that you need teeth in order to eat and it was - position: 12
however nice they might be.  "i'd like to eat something", said - position: 9
"just look how thin he was.  he didn't eat anything for so long. - position: 9

swamp:
outside the united states.  u.s. laws alone swamp our small staff. - position: 8

largely:
all this time on the floor, largely because he feared his father - position: 7

pure:
out to be pure imagination and he wondered how his imaginings would - position: 4

one--the:
updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions - position: 7

straight:
across gregor's room.  "you'll have to go for the doctor straight - position: 11
have kept calm, "i'll get dressed straight away now, pack up my - position: 7
straight away, but he was afraid that if he took the time to do that - position: 1
going backwards in a straight line; so he began, as quickly as - position: 5
front room and looked anxiously in.  she did not see him straight - position: 12
opened the door again straight away and came in on tip-toe as if - position: 5
anyone speaking he would scurry straight to the appropriate door and - position: 6
straight into cash that he could lay on the table at home for the - position: 1
gregor's room, then she would go straight to the window and pull it - position: 7
there, but not only did she not come in, she went straight back and - position: 12
threatened her and tried to bite her.  gregor went straight to hide - position: 10
see straight away that gregor had the best intentions and would go - position: 2
companions around him.  he was standing up straight enough now; - position: 8
unpleasant for the gentlemen? we can stop it straight away."  "on - position: 9
grounds for such an action."  he was silent and looked straight - position: 11
finished turning round he began to move straight ahead.  he was - position: 8
straight line towards the man.  at first, he stood there still, - position: 1
that made her unable to speak straight away, "well then, that thing - position: 7

closer:
much closer, but now it was certainly better the way his father had - position: 2
"aren't you coming any closer, then?", she asked when gregor turned - position: 5
they discussed their prospects and found that on closer examination - position: 9

ran:
and the two girls, their skirts swishing, immediately ran out - position: 9
himself, or at least not impeding gregor as he ran after him, - position: 10
transformation.  she ran into the other room to fetch some kind of - position: 3
too, ran into the next room as if he could advise his sister like in - position: 2
she could and ran with them in to her mother; she slammed the door - position: 4
strict with him.  and so he ran up to his father, stopped when his - position: 7
screaming, his mother ran out in front of her in her blouse (as his - position: 4
make it easier for her to breathe), she ran to his father, her - position: 9
strangers, his sister ran back and forth behind her desk at the - position: 4
in gregor's room and, highly aggrieved, ran back into the living - position: 7
struggling for breath where she was, and ran into the next room - position: 8

s:
the foundation's principal office is located at 4557 melan dr. s. - position: 11
professor michael s. hart is the originator of the project gutenberg-tm - position: 3

tall:
his life.  for some reason, the tall, empty room where he was forced - position: 7

bed:
himself transformed in his bed into a horrible vermin.  he lay on - position: 5
could see from the bed that it had been set for four o'clock as it - position: 5
to get out of the bed, when the clock struck quarter to seven. - position: 6
lying in bed.  he remembered that he had often felt a slight pain in - position: 3
bed, perhaps caused by lying awkwardly, but that had always turned - position: 1
done in bed", gregor said to himself, "so don't keep trying to do - position: 3
out of the bed, but he had never seen this lower part, and could not - position: 4
so then he tried to get the top part of his body out of the bed - position: 16
but when he had at last got his head out of the bed and into the - position: 13
himself out now at any price; better to stay in bed than lose - position: 11
was not possible for him to stay in bed and that the most sensible - position: 9
i'll definitely have to have got properly out of bed.  and by then - position: 10
out of the bed all at the same time.  if he succeeded in falling out - position: 4
of bed in this way and kept his head raised as he did so he could - position: 2
when gregor was already sticking half way out of the bed - the new - position: 11
away from the bed, bend down with the load and then be patient and - position: 4
couldn't get out of bed if he didn't spend at least a couple of - position: 5
all his force out of the bed.  there was a loud thump, but it wasn't - position: 7
up.  i'm still in bed now.  i'm quite fresh again now, though.  i'm - position: 5
just getting out of bed.  just a moment.  be patient! it's not quite - position: 5
bed - where he now tried to get himself upright.  he really did want - position: 1
dishevelled from bed despite the chief clerk's being there, looked - position: 3
there entombed in his bed when gregor came back from his business - position: 5
he was tired and getting into the damp bed in some small hotel room. - position: 9
father to wake him and try to persuade him to go to bed, as he - position: 13
chair for his bed.  then, however much mother and sister would - position: 4
to bed gregor's mother and sister would now leave their work where - position: 2
mr. and  mrs. samsa sat upright there in their marriage bed and had - position: 11
side, they hurried out of bed.  mr. samsa threw the blanket over his - position: 6

stumbling:
stumbling over the skirts she pushed herself to his father, her arms - position: 1

trademark:
protect the project gutenberg-tm concept and trademark.  project - position: 7
gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you - position: 5
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial - position: 4
1.b.  "project gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  it may only be - position: 7
project gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.e.8 or - position: 3
owed to the owner of the project gutenberg-tm trademark, but he - position: 9
hart, the owner of the project gutenberg-tm trademark.  contact the - position: 8
gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a project - position: 2
trademark owner, and any distributor under this agreement will not be - position: 1
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the foundation, anyone - position: 1

unheard:
a way that is quite unheard of.  i'm speaking here on behalf of your - position: 6
mother, unheard for so long, that had shaken him out of it.  nothing - position: 2

weight:
quite easily, and despite its breadth and its weight, the bulk of - position: 9
again with the whole weight of his body as needed.  the clear sound - position: 5
strain and no success - he had put on a lot of weight and become - position: 12

sweep:
morning and at midday, and in the evening she would sweep it away - position: 11

calmer:
gregor, in contrast, had become much calmer.  so they couldn't - position: 7

http://pglaf.org/fundraising:
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  contributions to the project gutenberg - position: 1

father's:
lethal blow to his back or head from the stick in his father's hand - position: 13
remained from his father's business, at least he had never told him - position: 4
this surplus money to reduce his father's debt to his boss, and the - position: 7
ability to see anything - her hands behind his father's head begging - position: 9
father's behaviour that annoyed them or the dawning realisation that - position: 1
face against her father's arm. - position: 4

finger:
a month earlier he had cut his finger slightly with a knife, he - position: 8
thought of how his finger had still hurt the day before yesterday. - position: 5
irritably.  she just put her finger on her lips and made a quick and - position: 6

wallpaper:
wallpaper, and before she even realised it was gregor that she saw - position: 1

evening:
stayed home every evening.  he sits with us in the kitchen and just - position: 4
it was not until it was getting dark that evening that gregor awoke - position: 10
be sat with his evening paper, reading it out in a loud voice to - position: 5
once during that long evening, the door on one side of the room was - position: 5
from the evening meal, covered in white sauce that had gone hard; a - position: 3
up for by the door to the living room being left open every evening. - position: 14
would often spend the whole evening looking at all the stains on - position: 6
around her head came every morning and evening to do the heaviest - position: 8
listening to the evening conversation about what price they had - position: 4
morning and at midday, and in the evening she would sweep it away - position: 8
cleared up the room in the evening, but now she could not have been - position: 7
his sister arrived home in the evening than she noticed the change - position: 7
slightly every evening and morning and look briefly in on him.  at - position: 3
the gentlemen who rented the room would sometimes take their evening - position: 11
the door to this room was often kept closed in the evening.  but - position: 12
rented the room came in in the evening and the light was put on. - position: 8
violin being played, but this evening it began to be heard from the - position: 6
out for his usual evening nap but from the uncontrolled way his head - position: 5

needed:
went to the door as ever and opened it.  gregor only needed to hear - position: 12
again with the whole weight of his body as needed.  the clear sound - position: 10
on the other side did the same; it seemed that someone needed to - position: 12
hurried back under the couch.  but he needed great self-control to - position: 8
grey earth mingled inseparably.  his observant sister only needed to - position: 9
insist; she had indeed noticed that gregor needed a lot of room to - position: 8
thoroughly clean his room, and needed to use several bucketfuls of - position: 6
easily by moving house; what they needed now was a flat that was - position: 7

least:
couldn't get out of bed if he didn't spend at least a couple of - position: 11
what caused them.  please, don't go away, at least first say - position: 9
something to show that you grant that i'm at least partly right!" - position: 10
himself, or at least not impeding gregor as he ran after him, - position: 4
visitor into the room in some way or at least to find out who it - position: 10
catch a friendly comment, or at least a comment that could be - position: 7
about the same subject as there were always at least two members of - position: 10
remained from his father's business, at least he had never told him - position: 7
times and they had never come again, at least not with the same - position: 9
belly.  this picture at least, now totally covered by gregor, would - position: 5
but gregor had had no intention of frightening anyone, least of all - position: 10

s/he:
you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he - position: 13

follow:
**     please follow the copyright guidelines in this file.     ** - position: 3
gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement - position: 6

stared:
speak, and, with protruding lips, only stared back at him over his - position: 7

forefinger:
pointing, without wasting any more words, with his forefinger at - position: 9

direction:
gather, he chose the wrong direction, hit hard against the lower - position: 6
his body eventually followed slowly in the direction of the head. - position: 8
crawl around unimpeded in any direction, but it would also have let - position: 6
catching their breath, he sallied out, changed direction four times - position: 8

guidelines:
**     please follow the copyright guidelines in this file.     ** - position: 6

distributed:
copied or distributed: - position: 3
and distributed to anyone in the united states without paying any fees - position: 2
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest - position: 2
with anyone.  for thirty years, he produced and distributed project - position: 9

jumped:
then she suddenly jumped up with her arms outstretched and her - position: 4
jumped off after their friend as if taken with a sudden fear that - position: 1

staircase:
disappeared; his shouts resounding all around the staircase.  the - position: 8

pain:
he began to feel a mild, dull pain there that he had never felt - position: 8
lying in bed.  he remembered that he had often felt a slight pain in - position: 13
bedpost, and learned from the burning pain he felt that the lower - position: 7
pain, he turned it and rubbed it against the carpet. - position: 1
stood there upright; the lower part of his body was in serious pain - position: 13
attention to the pain he was causing himself.  as the key turned - position: 4
back again in disappointment; not only did the pain in his tender - position: 9
to bear it; but as it was it caused him pain.  his sister, - position: 11
pain by changing his position; but he felt as if nailed to the spot - position: 1
that his entire body was aching, but the pain seemed to be slowly - position: 9

liked:
himself as he liked.  gregor's little legs whirred, at last he could - position: 4
while, knowing full well that she would certainly have liked to - position: 10
to see how his sister liked the new arrangement. - position: 6

immaculate:
shy to move forward a little onto the immaculate floor of the living - position: 9

accumulating:
little for himself, so that that, too, had been accumulating. - position: 10

adhesive:
himself upright against it using the adhesive on the tips of his - position: 7
all, left traces of the adhesive from his feet as he crawled about - - position: 6

bombard:
any point in running as his father had decided to bombard him.  he - position: 11

beer:
would sometimes ask his father whether he would like a beer, hoping - position: 11

nonproprietary:
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any - position: 4

glancing:
now", he said, raising his hand and glancing at gregor's mother and - position: 8

disturbing:
to leave him now in peace instead of disturbing him with talking at - position: 9

clapping:
the entrance hall, clapping his hands, "get a locksmith here, now!" - position: 4

entering:
if he did not want to fall flat on his back before entering the - position: 13
entering the room of someone seriously ill or even of a stranger. - position: 1

sacked:
be sacked on the spot.  and it seemed to gregor much more sensible - position: 2
"tonight she gets sacked", said  mr. samsa, but he received no reply - position: 4

survive:
project gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide - position: 7

staring:
still staring out the window, motionless, and just where he would be - position: 2
their tears would mingle, or they would simply sit there staring - position: 11

newby:
dr. gregory b. newby - position: 4

managed:
one that would stretch itself out; and if he finally managed to do - position: 11
first, carefully turning his head to the side.  this he managed - position: 11
went.  how had his sister managed to get dressed so quickly? there - position: 6

provoking:
might see it as especially provoking if he fled onto the wall or - position: 6

hungrier:
feel completely well and even felt much hungrier than usual. - position: 8
was so pleased he almost laughed, as he was even hungrier than he - position: 11

greedily:
already sucking greedily at the cheese which had immediately, almost - position: 3

remember:
work, but that's just the right time to remember what's been - position: 9
throughout all this time, gregor could not remember having heard the - position: 8
any more, then, but we could carry on with our lives and remember - position: 13

freedom:
stare out of it.  he had used to feel a great sense of freedom from - position: 14

various:
was looking into various bottles, he startled her when she turned - position: 4
seemed remarkable to gregor that above all the various noises of - position: 9
this and all associated files of various formats will be found in: - position: 7

reply:
reply to this question, the chief clerk's firm footsteps in his - position: 1
"tonight she gets sacked", said  mr. samsa, but he received no reply - position: 12

caused:
bed, perhaps caused by lying awkwardly, but that had always turned - position: 3
what caused them.  please, don't go away, at least first say - position: 2
slightest noise he caused would be heard next door and they would - position: 4
to bear it; but as it was it caused him pain.  his sister, - position: 9
great as that, caused himself no damage.  very soon his sister - position: 4
to make an effort to get over the shock caused by the cleaner before - position: 10

injuries:
eat.  what's more, his injuries must already have completely healed - position: 5
because of his injuries, gregor had lost much of his mobility - - position: 4

use:
this ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with - position: 6
little legs would find a use.  should he really call for help - position: 6
use, and placed it beside them.  then, out of consideration for - position: 1
was of no use to him at all.  girls of that age, though, do become - position: 4
forgot that the walls were there for him to use although, here, they - position: 10
thoroughly clean his room, and needed to use several bucketfuls of - position: 8
anything she couldn't use for the time being she would just chuck in - position: 4
all, often failed to make use of it when it was open and, without - position: 6
should, for once, be of some use to him; he wanted to be at every - position: 7
they decided the best way to make use of that day was for relaxation - position: 8
set forth in the general terms of use part of this license, apply to - position: 8
rules is very easy.  you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose - position: 7
please read this before you distribute or use this work - position: 8
section 1.  general terms of use and redistributing project gutenberg-tm - position: 6
the copyright owner for this particular work and the terms of use - position: 12
this ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with - position: 6
through 1.e.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the - position: 8
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution - position: 9
the use of project gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method - position: 2
you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  the fee is - position: 3
and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of - position: 4

caustic:
gregor's face, some kind of caustic medicine splashed all over him; - position: 6

legal:
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal - position: 10
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees, - position: 9

like:
chosen! travelling day in and day out.  doing business like this - position: 10
past, more like quarter to seven.  had the alarm clock not rung? he - position: 3
seven; if he were to catch that he would have to rush like mad and - position: 13
imagine what it looked like; it turned out to be too hard to move; - position: 5
to desperate conclusions.  at times like this he would direct his - position: 6
clock struck again, "seven o'clock, and there's still a fog like - position: 11
unfortunately as you like, we simply have to overcome it because of - position: 4
same demands as before? there was no need to worry about things like - position: 13
exclaim a loud "oh!", which sounded like the soughing of the wind. - position: 7
like to do my job; being a commercial traveller is arduous but - position: 1
than the boss himself - it's very easy for a businessman like him to - position: 11
him like a wild man.  gregor had never had any practice in moving - position: 2
left side seemed like one, painfully stretched scar,  and he limped - position: 4
milk did not taste at all nice.  milk like this was normally his - position: 9
felt a great pride that he was able to provide a life like that in - position: 13
fresh foods, on the other hand, he didn't like at all, and even - position: 9
would sometimes ask his father whether he would like a beer, hoping - position: 9
parents did not like to hear this innocent talk, but gregor thought - position: 4
him feel abandoned to be in an empty room like that.  then, quietly, - position: 10
taking the furniture away, won't it seem like we're showing that - position: 8
too, ran into the next room as if he could advise his sister like in - position: 14
his father, though, was not in the mood to notice subtleties like - position: 12
think of taking over the family's affairs, just like before, the - position: 9
like it! one day, early in the morning while a heavy rain struck the - position: 1
was like a kind of attack.  instead of being afraid, the charwoman - position: 2
however nice they might be.  "i'd like to eat something", said - position: 7
gregor anxiously, "but not anything like they're eating.  they do - position: 6
like to come in and play for us here in the room, where it is, after - position: 1
lay on his back and wipe himself on the carpet like he had used to - position: 11
they had had a neighbour like gregor in the next room without - position: 6
their arms like he had, tugged excitedly at their beards and moved - position: 3
the three gentlemen shouted like thunder and stamped his foot and - position: 5
as introduction, "we can't carry on like this.  maybe you can't see - position: 7
to be tortured like this, we can't endure it.  i can't endure it any - position: 4
possible for human beings to live with an animal like that and he - position: 10
silent sign to the men that they might like to come into gregor's - position: 9

countries:
what you can do with this work.  copyright laws in most countries are in - position: 12

increasing:
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be - position: 1

showing:
suddenly seem to be showing off with peculiar whims.  this morning, - position: 5
taking the furniture away, won't it seem like we're showing that - position: 10

included:
re-use it under the terms of the project gutenberg license included - position: 11
included with the permission of the copyright holder.  information on - position: 1
re-use it under the terms of the project gutenberg license included - position: 11
unless a copyright notice is included.  thus, we do not necessarily - position: 6

contractor:
to her contractor and grete to her principal.  the cleaner came in - position: 3

discovered:
electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days - position: 4

http://www.gutenberg.net/5/2/0/5200/:
http://www.gutenberg.net/5/2/0/5200/ - position: 1

walks:
people in all walks of life. - position: 4

including:
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any - position: 8
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal - position: 9
warranties of any kind, express or implied, including but not limited to - position: 8
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees, - position: 8
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  it exists - position: 1
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  many small donations - position: 4
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card - position: 2
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card - position: 3
including how to make donations to the project gutenberg literary - position: 1

exactly:
different newspapers.  on the wall exactly opposite there was - position: 6
under them; to his pleasure, they did exactly as he told them; they - position: 8
she went out again she would have to tell them exactly how - position: 11
cope for himself? i think it'd be best to leave the room exactly the - position: 13

arms:
he would have used his arms and his hands to push himself up; but - position: 6
only have to push their arms under the dome of his back, peel him - position: 6
at his father.  then she unfolded her arms, took two steps forward - position: 8
then she suddenly jumped up with her arms outstretched and her - position: 8
the table and into the arms of his father as he rushed towards her. - position: 6
came back first while grete in the next room had her arms round the - position: 12
screamed: "oh god, oh god!"  arms outstretched, she fell onto the - position: 6
his arms and who, on the couple of times a year when they went for a - position: 2
stumbling over the skirts she pushed herself to his father, her arms - position: 12
two women took him under the arms he would abruptly open his eyes, - position: 7
had been.  he rushed up to them with his arms spread out and - position: 10
their arms like he had, tugged excitedly at their beards and moved - position: 2
with her arms around his neck. - position: 3
over to the window where they remained with their arms around each - position: 10

iii:
iii - position: 1

owner:
the copyright owner for this particular work and the terms of use - position: 3
owed to the owner of the project gutenberg-tm trademark, but he - position: 4
hart, the owner of the project gutenberg-tm trademark.  contact the - position: 3
gutenberg literary archive foundation, the owner of the project - position: 6
trademark owner, and any distributor under this agreement will not be - position: 2
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the foundation, anyone - position: 2

intended:
all that secure.  i had originally intended to say all this to you - position: 7
ear bent down to him while he told her how he had always intended to - position: 14

pangs:
devoted who would go so mad with pangs of conscience that he - position: 8

drive:
left, and used them to drive gregor back into his room, stamping his - position: 6
than ever, was to drive gregor forwards all the harder as if there - position: 5
drive him back but that they had only to open the door and he would - position: 1
attempted to drive them back into their room at the same time as - position: 3

mouth:
lock with his mouth.  he seemed, unfortunately, to have no proper - position: 4
from his mouth, flowed over the key and dripped onto the floor. - position: 3
upright with his mouth, and hung onto the key or pushed it down - position: 4
pressed against his open mouth and slowly retreating as if driven by - position: 5
with her mouth open, clearly intending not to close her mouth until - position: 3
with her mouth open, clearly intending not to close her mouth until - position: 11
might take some of it into his mouth to play with it, leave it there - position: 8
cigarettes upwards from their mouth and noses.  yet gregor's sister - position: 5

push:
he would have used his arms and his hands to push himself up; but - position: 11
only have to push their arms under the dome of his back, peel him - position: 4
notice the chair twice before she would always push it back to its - position: 9
how she could please him but would hurriedly push some food or other - position: 9

built:
blossoming into a well built and beautiful young lady.  they became - position: 5

career:
"oh, god", he thought, "what a strenuous career it is that i've - position: 8

invalid:
ancient invalid and it took him long, long minutes to crawl across - position: 2

slipped:
she had already finished making the beds and slipped out again - position: 9

men:
silent sign to the men that they might like to come into gregor's - position: 5

disclaimer:
1.f.2.  limited warranty, disclaimer of damages - except for the "right - position: 4
if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the - position: 3
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by - position: 6

sitting:
to copy out the contract, these gentlemen are always still sitting - position: 11
off his desk! and it's a funny sort of business to be sitting up - position: 13
trips, who would receive him sitting in the armchair in his - position: 6

sort:
off his desk! and it's a funny sort of business to be sitting up - position: 8
it, the words could be made out at first but then there was a sort - position: 15
on the left.  gregor tried to imagine whether something of the sort - position: 12
and it's almost impossible to defend yourself from that sort of - position: 10
that was the sort of totally pointless thing that went through his - position: 4
dressed in a smart blue uniform with gold buttons, the sort worn by - position: 11

sufficient:
mother's advice now was sufficient reason for her to insist on - position: 5

lack:
teeth - how was he, then, to grasp the key? - but the lack of teeth - position: 12
was, realise that it was not from any lack of hunger and bring him - position: 9
lack of any direct human communication, along with the monotonous - position: 1
the lack of attention he was shown, and although he could think of - position: 2

$1:
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt - position: 1

helped:
cook had left but she certainly would not have helped in this, she - position: 10
helped gregor's sister to get the chest of drawers out with what - position: 1

educational:
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the - position: 2

spying:
spying out from under the sheet; he gave up the chance to see his - position: 1

telling:
clear that she was not to.  so, as she was prevented from telling - position: 13

silent:
all go silent.  "what's that he's doing now", his father would say - position: 3
joy, but once at the door she went silent.  first, of course, his - position: 9
gregor as he slowly moved forward.  the violin went silent, the - position: 10
grounds for such an action."  he was silent and looked straight - position: 8
silent sign to the men that they might like to come into gregor's - position: 1

noses:
cigarettes upwards from their mouth and noses.  yet gregor's sister - position: 7

cautious:
there was a cautious knock at the door near his head.  "gregor", - position: 4
and instead congratulated himself for his cautious habit, acquired - position: 7

found:
one morning, when gregor samsa woke from troubled dreams, he found - position: 11
towards the headboard so that he could lift his head better; found - position: 12
found for it later on, it was not something for which gregor could - position: 1
as he found no difficulty in moving.  this amazed him, as more than - position: 3
she came into the room a little earlier than usual and found him - position: 12
usual.  it made him realise that she still found his appearance - position: 9
room and found herself face to face with him.  he was taken totally - position: 3
sold, the family did not wish to discard.  all these things found - position: 12
their way into gregor's room.  the dustbins from the kitchen found - position: 11
gregor found it easy to give up having the door open, he had, after - position: 2
made her usual brief look in on gregor and at first found nothing - position: 12
at him a little, and only when she found she could shove him across - position: 9
they discussed their prospects and found that on closer examination - position: 6
this and all associated files of various formats will be found in: - position: 11
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work. - position: 6
information can be found at the foundation's web site and official - position: 4

happened:
"what's happened to me?" he thought.  it wasn't a dream.  his room, - position: 2
somebody will have come round from work to ask what's happened to me - position: 11
that had happened to him today could ever happen to the chief clerk - position: 3
that happened his boss would once more pursue their parents with the - position: 2
open;  people often do in homes where something awful has happened. - position: 11
had that happened than, for the first time that day, he began to - position: 3
how much she knew of what had happened but she left within a quarter - position: 8
happened, even though no-one had asked that of her. - position: 1
home.  "what's happened?" were his first words; grete's appearance - position: 3
bad had happened, that he was responsible for some act of violence. - position: 3
gregor had almost entirely stopped eating.  only if he happened to - position: 10
throw everything out in one go, but what actually happened was that - position: 10
the chair where the gentleman happened to have placed it - out of - position: 6
him.  she happened to be holding the long broom in her hand, so she - position: 3
she soon realised what had really happened, opened her eyes wide, - position: 7

enemy:
as an enemy.  on the contrary, as a family there was a duty to - position: 3

minutes:
labouring at it for fifteen minutes or more his mother said it would - position: 6
ancient invalid and it took him long, long minutes to crawl across - position: 9

registered:
gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you - position: 4
1.b.  "project gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  it may only be - position: 6

tonight:
"tonight she gets sacked", said  mr. samsa, but he received no reply - position: 1

became:
himself up a little and they fell off by themselves.  but it became - position: 13
a miracle if his head were not injured, so he became afraid to carry - position: 11
still, although his little legs only became all the more lively as - position: 7
condemned to work for a company where they immediately became highly - position: 10
or if he left most of it, which slowly became more and more - position: 10
listening.  there were times when he simply became too tired to - position: 8
onto the cool, leather sofa next to it, as he became quite hot with - position: 11
he became noticeably short of breath, even in his earlier life his - position: 2
hardly keep his eyes open; his thoughts became too slow for him to - position: 8
as a result of this it slowly became even shabbier despite the - position: 8
household budget became even smaller; so now the maid was dismissed; - position: 3
at the same time she became touchy in a way that was quite new for - position: 6
helpless; then they, too, became agitated; gregor's father, standing - position: 5
smoking.  when the violin began playing they became attentive, stood - position: 8
blossoming into a well built and beautiful young lady.  they became - position: 11

however:
state couldn't get into that position.  however hard he threw - position: 7
beg of you."  gregor, however, had no thought of opening the door, - position: 5
responsibility and he could rest.  if, however, they took everything - position: 7
help, his appeals were simply not understood, however much he humbly - position: 8
hopes which, however, always led to the same conclusion: for the - position: 3
good to eat.  however, his sister noticed the full dish immediately - position: 4
this money, however, was certainly not enough to enable the family - position: 3
without doing any harm.  another one however, immediately following - position: 7
chair for his bed.  then, however much mother and sister would - position: 6
however nice they might be.  "i'd like to eat something", said - position: 1
word processing or hypertext form.  however, if you provide access to or - position: 6

seriously:
would seriously have expected him to let the chief clerk in.  it was - position: 2
called his mother, who was already in tears, "he could be seriously - position: 12
and concentration.  you're well aware that i'm seriously in debt to - position: 8
entering the room of someone seriously ill or even of a stranger. - position: 6
why he had seriously wanted his room emptied out.  had he really - position: 4

works:
creating the works from public domain print editions means that no - position: 3
one owns a united states copyright in these works, so the foundation - position: 9
copying and distributing project gutenberg-tm electronic works to - position: 7
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and - position: 6
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work - position: 4
electronic works - position: 2
all copies of project gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession. - position: 7
things that you can do with most project gutenberg-tm electronic works - position: 11
gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement - position: 3
works.  see paragraph 1.e below. - position: 1
gutenberg-tm electronic works.  nearly all the individual works in the - position: 3
gutenberg-tm electronic works.  nearly all the individual works in the - position: 8
works based on the work as long as all references to project gutenberg - position: 1
gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by - position: 9
freely sharing project gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of - position: 5
this particular work is one of the few copyrighted individual works - position: 11
creating derivative works based on this work or any other project - position: 3
to the project gutenberg-tm license for all works posted with the - position: 8
performing, copying or distributing any project gutenberg-tm works - position: 8
access to or distributing project gutenberg-tm electronic works provided - position: 8
the use of project gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method - position: 6
destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium - position: 6
project gutenberg-tm works. - position: 3
distribution of project gutenberg-tm works. - position: 5
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set - position: 6
public domain works in creating the project gutenberg-tm - position: 3
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain - position: 1
providing copies of project gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance - position: 7
promotion and distribution of project gutenberg-tm electronic works, - position: 8
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers - position: 2
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be - position: 9
works. - position: 1
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared - position: 7

hinder:
to see his good intentions as he did nothing to hinder him, in fact - position: 11

emotion:
out in tears of emotion, and gregor would climb up to her shoulder - position: 5
he thought back of his family with emotion and love.  if it was - position: 8

free:
what he wanted with that leg, all the others seemed to be set free - position: 14
thing to do would be to get free of it in whatever way he could at - position: 8
else.  at first he moved it because, with no other room free where - position: 12
her own free will; she would sit beside him on the couch with her - position: 3
had kept free without any necklace or collar. - position: 3
would have gone of his own free will.  we wouldn't have a brother - position: 7
to protect the project gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free - position: 10
and help preserve free future access to project gutenberg-tm electronic - position: 4
gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by - position: 5
- you comply with all other terms of this agreement for free - position: 11
project gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of - position: 7

sits:
stayed home every evening.  he sits with us in the kitchen and just - position: 6

doubt:
doubt that the change in his voice was nothing more than the first - position: 1

meal:
breakfast was the most important meal of the day and he would - position: 6
from the evening meal, covered in white sauce that had gone hard; a - position: 4
second time after everyone had eaten their meal at midday as his - position: 8
meal at home in the living room that was used by everyone, and so - position: 1
kitchen.  the three gentlemen had already finished their meal, the - position: 9
the plates left by the three gentlemen after their meal, and - position: 10

medical:
certainly come round with the doctor from the medical insurance - position: 9

vertical:
to.  the almost vertical little ostrich feather on her hat, which - position: 4

problem:
opportunities to fix the problem. - position: 5

fashion:
lamp, would sew fancy underwear for a fashion shop; his sister, who - position: 8

bear:
greatest consideration so that his family could bear the - position: 8
in a position to bear the costs of the whole family, and did bear - position: 5
in a position to bear the costs of the whole family, and did bear - position: 14
to bear it; but as it was it caused him pain.  his sister, - position: 2

release:
release date: august 16, 2005 [ebook #5200] - position: 1

wanted:
he had heard properly or not.  gregor had wanted to give a full - position: 9
the first thing he wanted to do was to get up in peace without being - position: 5
control.  if he wanted to bend one of them, then that was the first - position: 4
what he wanted with that leg, all the others seemed to be set free - position: 3
the first thing he wanted to do was get the lower part of his body - position: 5
were even making the effort to carry him where he wanted to go; and - position: 11
held her head suggested she wanted to see gregor better, but the - position: 6
wanted to be sure of reaching him; the chief clerk must have - position: 1
wanted to get in there to him, but now, now that he had opened up - position: 1
sister wanted to spare them what distress she could as they were - position: 2
the family at home - nobody wanted to be at home by themselves and - position: 6
had taken the item he wanted.  what he heard his father say was some - position: 6
his mother also wanted to go in and visit gregor relatively soon but - position: 4
consideration for his parents, gregor wanted to avoid being seen at - position: 6
why he had seriously wanted his room emptied out.  had he really - position: 5
wanted to transform his room into a cave, a warm room fitted out - position: 1
she wanted to take her mother somewhere safe and then chase him down - position: 2
smelling salts to bring her mother out of her faint; gregor wanted - position: 12
if he wanted to say something would invariably stop and gather his - position: 3
it, hit squarely and lodged in his back; gregor wanted to drag - position: 10
nothing he would have wanted, he made plans of how he could get into - position: 5
set in front of them as if they wanted to test the food before - position: 9
wanted to show gregor that you need teeth in order to eat and it was - position: 1
playing here as much as he would.  he never wanted to let her out of - position: 10
should, for once, be of some use to him; he wanted to be at every - position: 11
movement as if she wanted to hold back the broom, but did not - position: 5
suddenly overcome with humility and wanted permission again from - position: 6
writing;  mr. samsa saw that the cleaner wanted to start describing - position: 8

raising:
raising a heavy fur muff that covered the whole of her lower arm - position: 1
now", he said, raising his hand and glancing at gregor's mother and - position: 4
become excited merely because she was and stood up half raising his - position: 11
himself do it, repeatedly raising it and striking it against the - position: 5

defects:
"defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or - position: 1

trouser:
put his hands in his trouser pockets, pushing back the bottom of his - position: 6

alert:
eyebrows, his piercing, dark eyes looked out fresh and alert; his - position: 10

injury:
remained there as a visible reminder of his injury.  he had suffered - position: 9
do any more.  and the injury in gregor's back began to hurt as much - position: 6

panic:
a panic.  in the hall, he stretched his right hand far out towards - position: 2
father into a panic as well.  until then he had been relatively self - position: 4

adjoining:
highly polished boots could now be heard in the adjoining room. - position: 10

periodic:
prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax - position: 9

announcement:
planned with a grand announcement of it on christmas day. - position: 5

stuff:
let's forget about all that old stuff, shall we.  come and give me a - position: 7

shouted:
"gregor!" shouted his sister, glowering at him and shaking her fist. - position: 2
that; "ah!", he shouted as he came in, sounding as if he were both - position: 4
"mr. samsa!", shouted the middle gentleman to gregor's father, - position: 3
the three gentlemen shouted like thunder and stamped his foot and - position: 4
"it's got to go", shouted his sister, "that's the only way, father. - position: 5

ahead:
ahead as if waiting for something.  and indeed, his two friends - position: 1
finished turning round he began to move straight ahead.  he was - position: 9

pressed:
whispering with the chief clerk, or perhaps they were all pressed - position: 11
pressed against his open mouth and slowly retreating as if driven by - position: 1
pulled open a window, leant far out of it and pressed her hands to - position: 11
while those on the other side were pressed painfully against the - position: 8
hurried under the couch.  it pressed down on his back a little, and - position: 6
mind in his present state, pressed upright against the door and - position: 6
his body pressed to the floor, he was forced to admit to himself - position: 3
in copious fur.  he hurried up onto the picture and pressed himself - position: 11
subdued voice, and openly pressed her face into his chest: "mother's - position: 5
possible.  so he fled to the door of his room and pressed himself - position: 12
stood pressed against each other.  someone must have heard them in - position: 2
respect he owed to his tenants.  he urged them and pressed them - position: 11
her legs stretched out and pressed against each other, her eyes - position: 6
of them had been crying a little; grete now and then pressed her - position: 12

double:
around one of the double doors, and he had to do it very carefully - position: 5
the other of the double doors so that gregor would have enough space - position: 5

difficulty:
despite all the difficulty he was in, he could not suppress a smile - position: 4
achieved in the past and consider that later on, once the difficulty - position: 12
body was too broad to get through it without further difficulty.  in - position: 11
as he found no difficulty in moving.  this amazed him, as more than - position: 5

electronically:
refund.  if you received the work electronically, the person or entity - position: 7
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  if the second copy - position: 4

thanking:
of an hour, tearfully thanking gregor's mother for her dismissal as - position: 5

spineless:
time ago.  the office assistant was the boss's man, spineless, and - position: 10

powerful:
and wept so that his powerful chest shook. - position: 6

little:
his armour-like back, and if he lifted his head a little he could - position: 11
a proper human room although a little too small, lay peacefully - position: 7
quite sad.  "how about if i sleep a little bit longer and forget all - position: 9
where the itch was, and saw that it was covered with lots of little - position: 14
himself up a little and they fell off by themselves.  but it became - position: 4
instead of them he only had all those little legs continuously - position: 9
enveloped in morning fog and the view had little confidence or cheer - position: 9
little legs would find a use.  should he really call for help - position: 1
still, although his little legs only became all the more lively as - position: 4
really a loud noise.  his fall was softened a little by the carpet, - position: 10
is working with his fretsaw.  he's made a little frame, for - position: 9
it with his little legs.  by now he had also calmed down, and kept - position: 4
make his voice as clear as possible, he coughed a little, but taking - position: 11
legs.  he rested there a little while to recover from the effort - position: 6
gregor fell immediately over and, with a little scream as he sought - position: 8
something to hold onto, landed on his numerous little legs.  hardly - position: 9
feel alright with his body; the little legs had the solid ground - position: 7
hissing, he made a mistake and turned himself back a little the way - position: 11
by himself, the little legs along one side hung quivering in the air - position: 4
sweetened milk with little pieces of white bread floating in it.  he - position: 4
hurried under the couch.  it pressed down on his back a little, and - position: 12
himself as he liked.  gregor's little legs whirred, at last he could - position: 6
dragged the things he did want to eat a little way away from them - position: 10
as eating so much food had rounded out his body a little and he - position: 12
parents would sleep for a little while then as well, and gregor's - position: 6
his room.  it was only later, when she had become a little more used - position: 12
some receipt or document from the little cash box he had saved from - position: 7
little for himself, so that that, too, had been accumulating. - position: 1
cold, she would stay at the window breathing deeply for a little - position: 12
she came into the room a little earlier than usual and found him - position: 7
overcome the urge to flee when she saw the little bit of him that - position: 10
little.  it was enough to attract his mother's attention.  she stood - position: 1
little calls to each other, the scraping of the furniture on the - position: 1
way forward a little more slowly than them, who were already walking - position: 4
after another.  these little, red apples rolled about on the floor, - position: 4
importune him with little reproaches and warnings he would keep - position: 4
and there were little balls of dust and filth.  at first, gregor - position: 4
playing, gregor had dared to come forward a little and already had - position: 9
shy to move forward a little onto the immaculate floor of the living - position: 6
expression.  gregor crawled a little further forward, keeping his - position: 5
become a little annoyed, and it was not clear whether it was his - position: 3
state a little while before and almost without noticing it.  he - position: 3
that his little legs collapsed under him.  it was his sister who had - position: 3
able to actually move around on those spindly little legs until then - position: 9
at him a little, and only when she found she could shove him across - position: 4
until then, but now he was not lifted up on his little legs, nor did - position: 12
"grete, come with us in here for a little while", said  mrs. samsa - position: 9
of them had been crying a little; grete now and then pressed her - position: 7
to.  the almost vertical little ostrich feather on her hat, which - position: 5

small:
a proper human room although a little too small, lay peacefully - position: 9
a small symptom of it last night already.  they must have noticed - position: 2
he was tired and getting into the damp bed in some small hotel room. - position: 12
thumped on the table with her small fists; and gregor hissed in - position: 7
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  many small donations - position: 8
outside the united states.  u.s. laws alone swamp our small staff. - position: 10

active:
1.e.1.  the following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate - position: 6
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the project - position: 1

fitness:
warranties of merchantibility or fitness for any purpose. - position: 5

communication:
lack of any direct human communication, along with the monotonous - position: 6

trying:
done in bed", gregor said to himself, "so don't keep trying to do - position: 11
parents, "surely he's not trying to make fools of us". "oh, god!" - position: 5
gregor kept trying to assure himself that nothing unusual was - position: 3
trying to block their view of gregor with his body.  now they did - position: 1

quietly:
hands were quietly moving forwards, it was even later than half - position: 3
possible to quietly sleep through that furniture-rattling noise? - position: 3
this."  and he lay there quietly a while longer, breathing lightly - position: 6
quietly through the night, his food soon stopped giving him any - position: 1
him feel abandoned to be in an empty room like that.  then, quietly, - position: 13

partly:
something to show that you grant that i'm at least partly right!" - position: 11
partly because it was a long time since he had been occupied with - position: 1
these matters himself and partly because gregor's mother did not - position: 5

emergencies:
that should not really be touched but set aside for emergencies; - position: 11

antennae:
with his antennae - of which he was now beginning to learn the value - position: 3

move:
and would move about painfully.  "this is something that can't be - position: 3
imagine what it looked like; it turned out to be too hard to move; - position: 14
was not familiar with how well he could move about in his present - position: 9
an end.  he held back the urge to move but swayed from side to side - position: 9
soon he was stuck fast and would not have been able to move at all - position: 13
think about too much, so he started to move about, crawling up and - position: 9
just to move about the home, every other day would be spent - position: 3
present circumstances, they could not move out of it, there was no - position: 6
consideration for him that made it difficult for them to move, it - position: 11
from their decision to move was much more to do with their total - position: 5
that he started to move toward her, he was slow and infirm, but it - position: 5
shy to move forward a little onto the immaculate floor of the living - position: 3
for him to move.  he was sure that everyone would turn on him any - position: 4
finished turning round he began to move straight ahead.  he was - position: 7
darkness.  he soon made the discovery that he could no longer move - position: 12
able to actually move around on those spindly little legs until then - position: 4

entire:
set himself to the task of swinging the entire length of his body - position: 9
this job would provide for gregor for his entire life, and besides, - position: 9
this establishment, in the entire flat and especially in the - position: 5
that his entire body was aching, but the pain seemed to be slowly - position: 3

sideboard:
had filled his pockets with fruit from the bowl on the sideboard and - position: 12

gutenberg-tm:
copying and distributing project gutenberg-tm electronic works to - position: 5
protect the project gutenberg-tm concept and trademark.  project - position: 4
to protect the project gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free - position: 5
gutenberg-tm license (available with this file or online at - position: 1
section 1.  general terms of use and redistributing project gutenberg-tm - position: 10
1.a.  by reading or using any part of this project gutenberg-tm - position: 11
all copies of project gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession. - position: 5
gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the - position: 1
things that you can do with most project gutenberg-tm electronic works - position: 9
gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement - position: 1
and help preserve free future access to project gutenberg-tm electronic - position: 9
gutenberg-tm electronic works.  nearly all the individual works in the - position: 1
gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by - position: 1
freely sharing project gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of - position: 4
this agreement for keeping the project gutenberg-tm name associated with - position: 7
gutenberg-tm license when you share it without charge with others. - position: 1
gutenberg-tm work.  the foundation makes no representations concerning - position: 1
access to, the full project gutenberg-tm license must appear prominently - position: 6
whenever any copy of a project gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the - position: 7
1.e.2.  if an individual project gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived - position: 6
project gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.e.8 or - position: 2
1.e.3.  if an individual project gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted - position: 6
to the project gutenberg-tm license for all works posted with the - position: 4
1.e.4.  do not unlink or detach or remove the full project gutenberg-tm - position: 12
work or any other work associated with project gutenberg-tm. - position: 9
gutenberg-tm license. - position: 1
distribute copies of a project gutenberg-tm work in a format other than - position: 6
posted on the official project gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net), - position: 6
form.  any alternate format must include the full project gutenberg-tm - position: 10
performing, copying or distributing any project gutenberg-tm works - position: 7
access to or distributing project gutenberg-tm electronic works provided - position: 6
the use of project gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method - position: 5
owed to the owner of the project gutenberg-tm trademark, but he - position: 8
does not agree to the terms of the full project gutenberg-tm - position: 11
project gutenberg-tm works. - position: 2
distribution of project gutenberg-tm works. - position: 4
1.e.9.  if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a project gutenberg-tm - position: 13
hart, the owner of the project gutenberg-tm trademark.  contact the - position: 7
public domain works in creating the project gutenberg-tm - position: 8
collection.  despite these efforts, project gutenberg-tm electronic - position: 6
gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a project - position: 1
gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all - position: 1
providing copies of project gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance - position: 5
promotion and distribution of project gutenberg-tm electronic works, - position: 6
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any project gutenberg-tm - position: 12
project gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any defect you cause. - position: 2
section  2.  information about the mission of project gutenberg-tm - position: 9
project gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of - position: 2
goals and ensuring that the project gutenberg-tm collection will - position: 7
and permanent future for project gutenberg-tm and future generations. - position: 6
project gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide - position: 2
section 5.  general information about project gutenberg-tm electronic - position: 7
professor michael s. hart is the originator of the project gutenberg-tm - position: 11
gutenberg-tm ebooks with only a loose network of volunteer support. - position: 1
project gutenberg-tm ebooks are often created from several printed - position: 2
this web site includes information about project gutenberg-tm, - position: 8

repeated:
when explaining things, his father repeated himself several times, - position: 6
understand everything the first time.  from these repeated explanations - position: 8
"if he could just understand us", repeated gregor's father, closing - position: 7

imaginings:
out to be pure imagination and he wondered how his imaginings would - position: 11

sauce:
from the evening meal, covered in white sauce that had gone hard; a - position: 8
pleasure, he consumed the cheese, the vegetables and the sauce; the - position: 10

intent:
their letters as if intent on continuing with what they were - position: 5

relaxation:
reads the paper or studies train timetables.  his idea of relaxation - position: 11
they decided the best way to make use of that day was for relaxation - position: 14

natural:
to their real and natural state. - position: 5

discussed:
they discussed their prospects and found that on closer examination - position: 2

whispering:
whispering with the chief clerk, or perhaps they were all pressed - position: 1
almost whispering as if wanting gregor (whose whereabouts she did - position: 2

indemnity:
1.f.6.  indemnity - you agree to indemnify and hold the foundation, the - position: 2

furniture-rattling:
possible to quietly sleep through that furniture-rattling noise? - position: 7

smelling:
smelling salts to bring her mother out of her faint; gregor wanted - position: 1

took:
it took just as much effort to get back to where he had been - position: 2
instance, it only took him two or three evenings, you'll be amazed - position: 4
responsibility and he could rest.  if, however, they took everything - position: 9
at his father.  then she unfolded her arms, took two steps forward - position: 9
straight away, but he was afraid that if he took the time to do that - position: 10
watched with bulging eyes as his sister unselfconsciously took a - position: 9
prospects were.  now and then he stood up from the table and took - position: 13
they took the money with gratitude and he was glad to provide it, - position: 2
now, without delaying any longer, grete took hold of all the bottles - position: 7
not said enough and that his father took it to mean that something - position: 8
scalp.  he took his cap, with its gold monogram from, probably, some - position: 3
each step his father took he had to carry out countless movements. - position: 5
ancient invalid and it took him long, long minutes to crawl across - position: 5
two women took him under the arms he would abruptly open his eyes, - position: 3
that, he took hold of the door handle and slammed the door. - position: 3
connection with their leader.  once there, all three took their hats - position: 9
from the stand, took their sticks from the holder, bowed without a - position: 4
something they had not done for months, and took the tram out to the - position: 9

drops:
drops of rain could be heard hitting the pane, which made him feel - position: 1
and looked at it and the few drops of milk splashed around it with - position: 8

incomprehensible:
your incomprehensible stubbornness i no longer feel any wish - position: 2

grete:
ill and we're making him suffer.  grete! grete!" she then cried. - position: 7
ill and we're making him suffer.  grete! grete!" she then cried. - position: 8
they can.  perhaps this was what tempted grete to make gregor's - position: 8
even more for him.  grete would probably be the only one who would - position: 5
came back first while grete in the next room had her arms round the - position: 5
grete. - position: 1
soon; grete had put her arm around her mother and was nearly - position: 2
carrying her.  "what shall we take now, then?", said grete and - position: 10
living room for a while?"  gregor could see what grete had in mind, - position: 10
now, without delaying any longer, grete took hold of all the bottles - position: 6
that grete would have to go and answer it.  his father had arrived - position: 2
wouldn't listen, would you."  it was clear to gregor that grete had - position: 11
point to gregor's room and say "close that door, grete", and then, - position: 10
to the living room where grete had been sleeping since the three - position: 6
example.  grete, who had not taken her eyes from the corpse, said: - position: 2
"grete, come with us in here for a little while", said  mrs. samsa - position: 1
with a pained smile, and grete followed her parents into the bedroom - position: 6
of them had been crying a little; grete now and then pressed her - position: 8
to her contractor and grete to her principal.  the cleaner came in - position: 5
that's all been sorted out."   mrs. samsa and grete bent down over - position: 9
practical.  all the time, grete was becoming livelier.  with all the - position: 5
intentions, as soon as they reached their destination grete was the - position: 9

uniting:
around him, uniting herself with him totally - now gregor lost his - position: 3

fitted:
a lady fitted out with a fur hat and fur boa who sat upright, - position: 3
wanted to transform his room into a cave, a warm room fitted out - position: 12

vile:
door and was painfully injured, leaving vile brown flecks on it, - position: 7

bolted:
the other door which was still held bolted in place.  in this way - position: 8
bolted and locked.  the sudden noise behind gregor so startled him - position: 1

budget:
household budget became even smaller; so now the maid was dismissed; - position: 2

stubborn:
stubborn; and i'm sure he isn't well, he said this morning that he - position: 1
see", he said to the chief clerk, "that i'm not stubborn and i - position: 11

knives:
up their knives and forks.  gregor's mother immediately appeared in - position: 3

traveller:
like to do my job; being a commercial traveller is arduous but - position: 9

bare:
not her bare hands - and carried it out.  gregor was extremely - position: 3
the opposite; the sight of the bare walls saddened her right to her - position: 7
dare enter a room dominated by gregor crawling about the bare walls - position: 11

sticks:
from the stand, took their sticks from the holder, bowed without a - position: 6

hopes:
hopes which, however, always led to the same conclusion: for the - position: 1

protrusions:
protrusions - then, right beside him, lightly tossed, something flew - position: 1

alteration:
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any - position: 3

effects:
the harmful effects of what's been going on without even knowing - position: 3

data:
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual - position: 2

suddenly:
suddenly seem to be showing off with peculiar whims.  this morning, - position: 1
shocking, what can suddenly happen to a person! i was quite alright - position: 4
then she suddenly jumped up with her arms outstretched and her - position: 3
suddenly caught by the picture on the wall - which was already - position: 1
suddenly interrupted.  she had let her hands drop and let violin and - position: 1
still playing, but then she suddenly pulled herself together, lay - position: 6
look", she suddenly screamed, "he's starting again!"   in her alarm, - position: 3
suddenly overcome with humility and wanted permission again from - position: 1
them all about it, she suddenly remembered what a hurry she was in - position: 6

careful:
careful as he swang over onto the floor, where, hopefully, the - position: 1
see what he could do about it.  he meant to be as careful and - position: 13
now, without even taking the time for careful aim, threw one apple - position: 8
following the lines of music with a careful and melancholy - position: 8

waited:
enter the room but thought better of it.  gregor went and waited - position: 12
was; but the door was opened no more that night and gregor waited in - position: 13
himself.  the gentlemen stepped back into the room and waited. - position: 10
moment, and he waited.  he was not even startled out of this state - position: 4

determined:
nourishment he had been yearning for.  he was determined to make his - position: 9

knocking:
knocking at one of the side doors, gently, but with his fist. - position: 1
now then?", asked his father impatiently, knocking at the door - position: 7
knocking into each other as if they had electric motors.  an apple - position: 1

knocked:
to notice that the coffee pot had been knocked over and a gush of - position: 9

charges:
or charges.  if you are redistributing or providing access to a work - position: 2

discourtesy:
only a minor discourtesy, and a suitable excuse could easily be - position: 4

contain:
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is - position: 7
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain - position: 12

comment:
catch a friendly comment, or at least a comment that could be - position: 4
catch a friendly comment, or at least a comment that could be - position: 9

martyr:
playing the martyr; she attributed all possible understanding to - position: 3

backs:
sweetly.  the other two held their hands behind their backs and - position: 10

sharing:
freely sharing project gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of - position: 2

practise:
easily done, probably because of the practise he had already had in - position: 7

impeding:
himself, or at least not impeding gregor as he ran after him, - position: 6

federal:
revenue service.  the foundation's ein or federal tax identification - position: 7
permitted by u.s. federal laws and your state's laws. - position: 4

polished:
highly polished boots could now be heard in the adjoining room. - position: 2
this coat, with its gold buttons always kept polished and shiny, - position: 9

decided:
about it quite hard and decided he would let them know what he - position: 6
any point in running as his father had decided to bombard him.  he - position: 9
as well as he could but she had simply decided to leave him to it. - position: 10
they decided the best way to make use of that day was for relaxation - position: 2

progress:
the three gentlemen made slow but steady progress down the many - position: 8

fainted:
fainted, but she's better now.  gregor got out."  "just as i - position: 1
sister had taken off some of her clothes after she had fainted to - position: 12

unnerving:
especially unnerving, the way they all blew the smoke from their - position: 2

obviously:
his present mood, it obviously did not occur to his father to open - position: 5
doing this, but doing it now was obviously something more remembered - position: 8
come in, he can't be seen", said his sister, obviously leading her - position: 10
driven out our tenants, it obviously wants to take over the whole - position: 6

barren:
looking out the window at a barren waste where the grey sky and the - position: 7

upon:
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon - position: 15
project gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide - position: 4

grin:
while mother and sister would exchange a tired grin. - position: 9

gilded:
illustrated magazine and housed in a nice, gilded frame.  it showed - position: 8

judge:
he could judge this for himself.  meanwhile, it had become very - position: 3
make mistakes about his employees and judge them more harshly than - position: 7

work:
somebody will have come round from work to ask what's happened to me - position: 7
as well, as they open up at work before seven o'clock."  and so he - position: 8
"that'll be someone from work", he said to himself, and froze very - position: 5
condemned to work for a company where they immediately became highly - position: 3
it.  i don't know why i didn't let you know at work! but you always - position: 12
work, but that's just the right time to remember what's been - position: 1
has been removed, he will certainly work with all the more diligence - position: 7
work my way out of it again.  please don't make things any harder - position: 1
money in quite different ways.  gregor converted his success at work - position: 11
them say how they appreciated all the new work his sister was doing - position: 9
part of the work for herself and ignoring her mother's warnings that - position: 4
sleep if he was to be up at six to get to work.  but since he had - position: 13
been in work he had become more obstinate and would always insist on - position: 3
leave her work to help her mother, but nothing would have any effect - position: 3
work; everything else was looked after by gregor's mother on top of - position: 1
the large amount of sewing work she did.  gregor even learned, - position: 6
to bed gregor's mother and sister would now leave their work where - position: 11
into his room with her foot before she rushed out to work in the - position: 12
gregor's sister was exhausted from going out to work, and looking - position: 9
after gregor as she had done before was even more work for her, but - position: 11
and kiss her neck, which, since she had been going out to work, she - position: 13
coming.  we can't all work as hard as we have to and then come home - position: 5
to work.  he could not help panting loudly with the effort and had - position: 2
and to go for a walk; not only had they earned a break from work but - position: 15
her work for that morning.  the three of them at first just nodded - position: 2
other about their work but all three had jobs which were very good - position: 4
please read this before you distribute or use this work - position: 10
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work - position: 10
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "project - position: 4
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to - position: 2
gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the - position: 3
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who - position: 11
individual work is in the public domain in the united states and you are - position: 2
works based on the work as long as all references to project gutenberg - position: 5
the work.  you can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by - position: 2
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full project - position: 3
this particular work is one of the few copyrighted individual works - position: 3
the copyright owner for this particular work and the terms of use - position: 7
imposed by the copyright holder on this work are set forth at the - position: 8
beginning of this work. - position: 4
what you can do with this work.  copyright laws in most countries are in - position: 7
creating derivative works based on this work or any other project - position: 7
gutenberg-tm work.  the foundation makes no representations concerning - position: 2
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the united - position: 6
whenever any copy of a project gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the - position: 8
whenever any copy of a project gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the - position: 10
1.e.2.  if an individual project gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived - position: 8
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied - position: 9
or charges.  if you are redistributing or providing access to a work - position: 12
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.e.1 - position: 1
through 1.e.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the - position: 11
1.e.3.  if an individual project gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted - position: 8
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work. - position: 12
license terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this - position: 5
work or any other work associated with project gutenberg-tm. - position: 1
work or any other work associated with project gutenberg-tm. - position: 5
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without - position: 2
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without - position: 9
1.e.6.  you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary, - position: 9
distribute copies of a project gutenberg-tm work in a format other than - position: 7
request, of the work in its original "plain vanilla ascii" or other - position: 4
money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the - position: 5
electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days - position: 2
of receipt of the work. - position: 5
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set - position: 2
gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all - position: 3
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can - position: 5
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  if you - position: 9
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with - position: 3
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a - position: 3
refund.  if you received the work electronically, the person or entity - position: 6
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  if the second copy - position: 3
in paragraph 1.f.3, this work is provided to you 'as-is,' with no other - position: 5
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any - position: 1
project gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any defect you cause. - position: 3

delighted:
benefit of his astonished and delighted family.  they had been good - position: 6

renamed:
will be renamed. - position: 3

screamed:
screamed: "oh god, oh god!"  arms outstretched, she fell onto the - position: 1
screamed at her that she was never to clean gregor's room again; - position: 1
look", she suddenly screamed, "he's starting again!"   in her alarm, - position: 4

1.b:
1.b.  "project gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  it may only be - position: 1

realisation:
father's behaviour that annoyed them or the dawning realisation that - position: 9

wearily:
continue listening, when his head would fall wearily against the - position: 8

wait:
hours of rest have given me strength.  you don't need to wait, sir; - position: 12
himself under the couch, of course, but he had to wait until midday - position: 11
them, father and mother, would often both wait outside the door of - position: 8
infant school--he really could not wait any longer to see whether - position: 6
stay with his mother; there was nothing for him to do but wait; and, - position: 13

far:
after a while he had already moved so far across that it would have - position: 9
a panic.  in the hall, he stretched his right hand far out towards - position: 11
as he crouched there on the floor.  his mother was not far away in - position: 12
pulled open a window, leant far out of it and pressed her hands to - position: 6
naturally, tried as far as possible to pretend there was nothing - position: 4
landing on the floor with a crash.  but now, of course, he had far - position: 14
crawl about in, whereas the furniture, as far as anyone could see, - position: 8
backwards to the far end of the couch.  in his startlement, though, - position: 4
hands in their pockets and come up far too close behind the music - position: 8

seized:
gregor's father seized the chief clerk's stick in his right hand - position: 3

indirectly:
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do - position: 5

dully:
cough dully, her hand held out in front of her and a deranged - position: 2

comfort:
this peace and wealth and comfort should come to a horrible and - position: 6

nonsensical:
some nonsensical hope.  but then of course, the maid's firm steps - position: 2

reduce:
this surplus money to reduce his father's debt to his boss, and the - position: 5

shared:
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared - position: 12

although:
a proper human room although a little too small, lay peacefully - position: 5
still, although his little legs only became all the more lively as - position: 2
understand his words any more, although they seemed clear enough to - position: 6
achievements - although he did not really distinguish one from the - position: 2
light sleep, although he frequently woke from it in alarm because of - position: 3
although he did feel a terrible urge to rush forward from under the - position: 1
was immediately startled, although he had been half asleep, and he - position: 4
although gregor wasn't able to hear any news directly he did listen - position: 1
although that was not so much bother as no-one ate very much. - position: 1
although there was no longer much warm affection given in return. - position: 1
to help too - he could save his picture later, although he stuck - position: 10
forgot that the walls were there for him to use although, here, they - position: 11
complaint was that although the flat was much too big for their - position: 4
the lack of attention he was shown, and although he could think of - position: 9
water to do it - although that much dampness also made gregor ill - position: 5
things had become superfluous which, although they could not be - position: 6
enjoy it although moving about in that way left him sad and tired to - position: 3
could go back into his room, although that was in itself quite - position: 7
and opened the window wide.  although it was still early in the - position: 6

wipe:
lay on his back and wipe himself on the carpet like he had used to - position: 6

skirt:
way forward to his sister and tug at her skirt to show her she might - position: 10

widest:
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers - position: 8
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest - position: 10

meet:
head close to the ground so that he could meet her eyes if the - position: 10
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up - position: 9

another:
money together to pay off my parents' debt to him - another five or - position: 11
newspaper.  quickly one after another, his eyes watering with - position: 5
gregor often heard how one of them would unsuccessfully urge another - position: 11
even more, and for another thing it wasn't even sure that taking the - position: 5
down and rolled in front of him.  it was an apple; then another one - position: 13
after another.  these little, red apples rolled about on the floor, - position: 2
without doing any harm.  another one however, immediately following - position: 5
skirts unfastened and sliding one after another to the ground, - position: 7
cleaner, and to prove it she gave gregor's body another shove with - position: 10

injuring:
probably avoid injuring it.  his back seemed to be quite hard, and - position: 3

ascii:
character set encoding: ascii - position: 4
"plain vanilla ascii" or other format used in the official version - position: 3
request, of the work in its original "plain vanilla ascii" or other - position: 10

begging:
ability to see anything - her hands behind his father's head begging - position: 11

distract:
there was not a word, not any cry, from his family to distract him. - position: 13

late:
your turnover has been very unsatisfactory of late; i grant you that - position: 8
it was not until late at night that the gaslight in the living room - position: 5
of wearing nice clothes, sleeping late, helping out in the business, - position: 6
his father the way he stood there now; of late, with his new habit - position: 10
worry they had been having of late her cheeks had become pale, but, - position: 7

concern:
main concern was for the loud noise he was bound to make, and which - position: 2
even through all the doors would probably raise concern if not - position: 9
unnecessary concern to your parents and you fail - and i mention - position: 2
despair, and gregor's only concern at that time had been to arrange - position: 5

watched:
and watched her.  would she notice that he had left the milk as it - position: 2
watched with bulging eyes as his sister unselfconsciously took a - position: 1
watched as it slowly began to get light everywhere outside the - position: 1

loud:
main concern was for the loud noise he was bound to make, and which - position: 6
all his force out of the bed.  there was a loud thump, but it wasn't - position: 11
really a loud noise.  his fall was softened a little by the carpet, - position: 3
gregor to himself; but without daring to raise his voice loud enough - position: 11
exclaim a loud "oh!", which sounded like the soughing of the wind. - position: 3
be sat with his evening paper, reading it out in a loud voice to - position: 12
close the matter with a big, loud "no", and no more would be said. - position: 7
continually rubbed them together in gleeful anticipation of a loud - position: 10

dustbins:
their way into gregor's room.  the dustbins from the kitchen found - position: 7

point:
any point in running as his father had decided to bombard him.  he - position: 2
point to gregor's room and say "close that door, grete", and then, - position: 1

causing:
than yes or no for an answer, you are causing serious and - position: 10
he must have been causing some kind of damage as a brown fluid came - position: 5
attention to the pain he was causing himself.  as the key turned - position: 7

leaves:
my train leaves at five." - position: 3

saving:
think of any other way of saving himself than running; he almost - position: 7

amazement:
while she just stood there in amazement with her hands crossed in - position: 7
amazement for their breakfasts;  they had been forgotten about. - position: 1

remaining:
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions. - position: 9

thanks:
to eat, and receive no more answer than "no thanks, i've had enough" - position: 10
complete it.  "now then", said  mr. samsa, "let's give thanks to god - position: 10

viewed:
gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed, - position: 8

thoughtfully:
and thoughtfully, but without moving so that he would not miss any - position: 2

statements:
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from - position: 2

centre:
from the dish and crawled back into the centre of the room. - position: 9

payments:
project gutenberg literary archive foundation.  royalty payments - position: 7
returns.  royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and - position: 3
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card - position: 6

decision:
decision very soon.  then there was a ring at the door of the flat. - position: 1
him upset than through any proper decision, he swang himself with - position: 7
from their decision to move was much more to do with their total - position: 3
mr. samsa for his decision.  mr. samsa merely opened his eyes wide - position: 5

banking:
the employees at the banking institute; above the high, stiff collar - position: 5

crawling:
think about too much, so he started to move about, crawling up and - position: 11
of crawling up and down the walls and ceiling.  he was especially - position: 2
dare enter a room dominated by gregor crawling about the bare walls - position: 8
of crawling about, he had neglected to pay attention to what was - position: 2
his room - crawling over the ceiling was out of the question - but - position: 3
concentrated on crawling as fast as he could and hardly noticed that - position: 3

precaution:
precaution so that no-one would have to suffer the view into - position: 1

fruit:
had filled his pockets with fruit from the bowl on the sideboard and - position: 6

comply:
gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the full project - position: 5
the work.  you can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by - position: 6
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.e.1 - position: 4
must comply with both paragraphs 1.e.1 through 1.e.7 and any additional - position: 2
unless you comply with paragraph 1.e.8 or 1.e.9. - position: 3
- you comply with all other terms of this agreement for free - position: 2

mindlessly:
furniture made it difficult for him to crawl about mindlessly that - position: 10

paying:
efforts, he bit on the key with all his strength, paying no - position: 11
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  special rules, - position: 4
and distributed to anyone in the united states without paying any fees - position: 10

just:
there eating their breakfasts.  i ought to just try that with my - position: 8
gone up to the boss and told him just what i think, tell him - position: 9
everything i would, let him know just what i feel.  he'd fall right - position: 7
it took just as much effort to get back to where he had been - position: 3
stayed home every evening.  he sits with us in the kitchen and just - position: 13
only just got up and had not even begun to get dressed.  and why was - position: 2
intention of abandoning his family.  for the time being he just lay - position: 11
this just by the way - you fail to carry out your business duties in - position: 2
the excitement, "i'll open up immediately, just a moment.  i'm - position: 7
just getting out of bed.  just a moment.  be patient! it's not quite - position: 1
just getting out of bed.  just a moment.  be patient! it's not quite - position: 6
times he tried to climb up on the smooth chest of drawers he just - position: 14
gregor spoke just now?"  "that was the voice of an animal", said the - position: 3
samples and set off.  will you please just let me leave? you can - position: 8
work, but that's just the right time to remember what's been - position: 4
just prejudice but they have no particular reason to think better of - position: 1
he had just come.  he was pleased when he finally had his head in - position: 3
frequent, she would often say, sadly, "now everything's just been - position: 9
just to move about the home, every other day would be spent - position: 1
still staring out the window, motionless, and just where he would be - position: 8
still just a child after all, and really might not have had an - position: 2
not give him much room to crawl about, it was hard to just lie - position: 13
folds into it so that everything really looked as if it had just - position: 13
furniture away would really be any help to him.  she thought just - position: 12
happening, it was just a few pieces of furniture being moved after - position: 4
the old days; but he had to just stand behind her doing nothing; she - position: 8
fainted, but she's better now.  gregor got out."  "just as i - position: 9
expected", said his father, "just as i always said, but you women - position: 5
able to stand up but, as a sign of his pleasure, would just raise - position: 13
swallow any revulsion for him and to be patient, just to be patient. - position: 10
on him.  he would just sink deeper into his chair.  only when the - position: 5
behest of the customers, but they just did not have the strength to - position: 7
think of taking over the family's affairs, just like before, the - position: 8
her long life, wasn't really repelled by gregor.  just by chance one - position: 9
while she just stood there in amazement with her hands crossed in - position: 3
responded to being spoken to in that way, but just remained where he - position: 10
just lifted up one of the chairs from near the door and stood there - position: 1
anything she couldn't use for the time being she would just chuck in - position: 11
his sister just shrugged her shoulders as a sign of the helplessness - position: 3
"if he could just understand us", said his father almost as a - position: 4
"if he could just understand us", repeated gregor's father, closing - position: 4
flat and force us to sleep on the streets.  father, look, just - position: 12
'ave a look at this, it's dead, just lying there, stone dead!" - position: 8
shoulders,  mrs. samsa just came out in her nightdress; and that is - position: 4
"just look how thin he was.  he didn't eat anything for so long. - position: 1
the food came out again just the same as when it went in". gregor's - position: 6
irritably.  she just put her finger on her lips and made a quick and - position: 3
quarrel which could only end in their favour.  "i mean just what i - position: 11
her work for that morning.  the three of them at first just nodded - position: 12
destroyed the peace they had only just gained.  they got up and went - position: 7
quieter.  just from each other's glance and almost without knowing - position: 2

new:
when gregor was already sticking half way out of the bed - the new - position: 13
to see how his sister liked the new arrangement. - position: 8
them say how they appreciated all the new work his sister was doing - position: 8
noticed gregor's new way of entertaining himself - he had, after - position: 3
his father the way he stood there now; of late, with his new habit - position: 13
with that - he knew full well, right from the first day of his new - position: 14
superior even here.  the uniform had not been new to start with, but - position: 9
imaginable way of transferring gregor to the new address.  he could - position: 8
as when it was new.  after they had come back from taking his father - position: 5
at the same time she became touchy in a way that was quite new for - position: 14
rearranging themselves into new positions.  "alright, we'll go - position: 4
her.  and, as if in confirmation of their new dreams and good - position: 9
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  it exists - position: 6
archive foundation, how to help produce our new ebooks, and how to - position: 8
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new ebooks. - position: 9

startlement:
backwards to the far end of the couch.  in his startlement, though, - position: 11

used:
do because he was used to sleeping on his right, and in his present - position: 5
he would have used his arms and his hands to push himself up; but - position: 4
him, clearer than before - perhaps his ears had become used to the - position: 10
left, and used them to drive gregor back into his room, stamping his - position: 3
now and then he used the tip of his stick to give directions from a - position: 5
"am i less sensitive than i used to be, then?", he thought, and was - position: 7
had not even touched at all as if it could not be used any more. - position: 13
his room.  it was only later, when she had become a little more used - position: 14
becoming fully used to the situation - that gregor would sometimes - position: 3
them.  they had even got used to it, both gregor and the family, - position: 6
this unexpected thrift and caution.  he could actually have used - position: 10
stare out of it.  he had used to feel a great sense of freedom from - position: 7
used to curse the ever-present view of the hospital across the - position: 1
used to this furniture in his room for a long time and it would make - position: 1
his sister, unfortunately, did not agree; she had become used to the - position: 10
without, of course, moving it an inch.  his mother was not used to - position: 12
that really his father? the same tired man as used to be laying - position: 10
stopped him eating, but he had soon got used to the changes made - position: 9
meal at home in the living room that was used by everyone, and so - position: 10
lay on his back and wipe himself on the carpet like he had used to - position: 14
gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you - position: 10
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who - position: 1
"plain vanilla ascii" or other format used in the official version - position: 7

awful:
open;  people often do in homes where something awful has happened. - position: 9

redistribute:
1.e.5.  do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this - position: 9

licensed:
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be - position: 8

fell:
himself up a little and they fell off by themselves.  but it became - position: 7
head carefully enough, though, and hit it as he fell; annoyed and in - position: 10
gregor fell immediately over and, with a little scream as he sought - position: 2
screamed: "oh god, oh god!"  arms outstretched, she fell onto the - position: 9
round; a bottle fell to the ground and broke; a splinter cut - position: 4
in his confusion as the whole room began to spin around him he fell - position: 14
staying longer at the table, even though he regularly fell asleep - position: 10
hands, and fell into it; it looked as if he was stretching himself - position: 3
when the violin on his mother's lap fell from her trembling fingers - position: 8

self:
father into a panic as well.  until then he had been relatively self - position: 13
and lacking in self confidence.  during the five years that he had - position: 4

o'clock:
could see from the bed that it had been set for four o'clock as it - position: 13
assistant would have been there to see the five o'clock train go, he - position: 10
to offer him.  "seven o'clock, already", he said to himself when the - position: 5
clock struck again, "seven o'clock, and there's still a fog like - position: 5
as well, as they open up at work before seven o'clock."  and so he - position: 11
in.  i'll set off with the eight o'clock train, as well, these few - position: 8
he really could be at the station for eight o'clock.  the first few - position: 10

feet:
couch, throw himself at his sister's feet and beg her for something - position: 7
all, left traces of the adhesive from his feet as he crawled about - - position: 9
they worked and he could only hear their feet as they stepped - position: 9
but nonetheless lifted his feet unusually high.  gregor was amazed - position: 5

letters:
three letters of excusal,  mr. samsa to his employers,  mrs. samsa - position: 2
their letters as if intent on continuing with what they were - position: 2
they quickly finished their letters. - position: 5

demand:
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further - position: 6

worries:
top of that there's the curse of travelling, worries about making - position: 9
his hunger, and some of the time was spent in worries and vague - position: 11

unthinking:
unthinking way she was hurrying backwards showed that she did not; - position: 1

warranties:
warranties of any kind, express or implied, including but not limited to - position: 1
warranties of merchantibility or fitness for any purpose. - position: 1
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages. - position: 1

teaboy:
the salesmen and the apprentices, that stupid teaboy, two or three - position: 8

folds:
folds into it so that everything really looked as if it had just - position: 1

arches:
see his brown belly, slightly domed and divided by arches into stiff - position: 10

cleaner:
when the cleaner came in early in the morning - they'd often asked - position: 3
to make an effort to get over the shock caused by the cleaner before - position: 13
cleaner, and to prove it she gave gregor's body another shove with - position: 1
but not without looking back at the body.  the cleaner shut the door - position: 10
"where is our breakfast?", the middle gentleman asked the cleaner - position: 10
to her contractor and grete to her principal.  the cleaner came in - position: 10
the cleaner still did not seem to want to leave that they looked up - position: 2
you want then?", asked  mrs. samsa, whom the cleaner had the most - position: 9
writing;  mr. samsa saw that the cleaner wanted to start describing - position: 7

method:
method was more of a game than an effort, all he had to do was rock - position: 1
the use of project gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method - position: 10

sister's:
couch, throw himself at his sister's feet and beg her for something - position: 6
hear his sister's sighs and appeals to the saints as she moved about - position: 3
most horrible.  in itself, his sister's not coming into the room - position: 6
quickly moving toward.  under his sister's experienced hand, the - position: 6
his eyes in acceptance of his sister's certainty that that was quite - position: 7

notes:
stand to look at all the notes being played, and they must have - position: 7

chaos:
peace and order to this chaos.  he told himself once more that it - position: 6

basis:
don't make my parents suffer! there's no basis for any of the - position: 8

errand:
sister would send the maid away on some errand.  gregor's father and - position: 9

poured:
butter and salt.  as well as all that she had poured some water into - position: 11

gaslight:
it was not until late at night that the gaslight in the living room - position: 10

vague:
his hunger, and some of the time was spent in worries and vague - position: 13

frenzy:
it went so slowly; and finally, almost in a frenzy, when he - position: 10

obsolete:
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  it exists - position: 2

talk:
she would close the front door in the entrance hall and talk him out - position: 12
only in secret.  for two whole days, all the talk at every mealtime - position: 10
parents did not like to hear this innocent talk, but gregor thought - position: 9
violin.  whenever they began to talk of the need to earn money, - position: 6

emerged:
of the coat his strong double-chin emerged; under the bushy - position: 7

shove:
ground.  then his father gave him a hefty shove from behind which - position: 9
at him a little, and only when she found she could shove him across - position: 12
cleaner, and to prove it she gave gregor's body another shove with - position: 11

alright:
as easy as i'd thought.  i'm quite alright now, though.  it's - position: 8
shocking, what can suddenly happen to a person! i was quite alright - position: 12
feel alright with his body; the little legs had the solid ground - position: 2
was alright; and only then did she let her mother enter.  gregor had - position: 2
rearranging themselves into new positions.  "alright, we'll go - position: 6

front:
through the hall, wrenching open the front door of the flat as they - position: 7
was open and as the front door of the flat was also open he could - position: 6
she would close the front door in the entrance hall and talk him out - position: 5
front of him and seemed, at first, quite engrossed in herself, but - position: 1
front of the doorway, but then saw that it was too narrow, and his - position: 1
some hurried steps and the sound of the door leading into the front - position: 13
front room and looked anxiously in.  she did not see him straight - position: 1
gregor's feelings, as she knew that he would not eat in front of - position: 12
he was not able to prevent the sheet at its front from moving a - position: 11
down and rolled in front of him.  it was an apple; then another one - position: 5
screaming, his mother ran out in front of her in her blouse (as his - position: 7
front of her.  from then on she never failed to open the door - position: 1
set in front of them as if they wanted to test the food before - position: 3
cough dully, her hand held out in front of her and a deranged - position: 8
hands in front of gregor's sister as if to protect her. - position: 3
delay, the man actually did take long strides into the front - position: 11
mr. samsa might go into the hallway in front of them and break the - position: 9

rather:
herself he would rather go hungry than draw her attention to it, - position: 4
on his picture.  he would rather jump at grete's face. - position: 6
day, rather than any real curiosity, she opened the door to gregor's - position: 2
at all.  this was no surprise to him, it seemed rather that being - position: 11

bother:
although that was not so much bother as no-one ate very much. - position: 7

untouched:
- more often than not - had been left totally untouched.  she still - position: 9

satisfaction:
kitchen.  it was to his satisfaction, and gregor's mother and - position: 6

produced:
one in the middle had produced a newspaper, given a page to each of - position: 6
with anyone.  for thirty years, he produced and distributed project - position: 7

saw:
where the itch was, and saw that it was covered with lots of little - position: 6
now he also saw him - he was the nearest to the door - his hand - position: 4
choice as he saw, to his disgust, that he was quite incapable of - position: 4
front of the doorway, but then saw that it was too narrow, and his - position: 7
than experienced,  as what he actually saw in this way was becoming - position: 7
overcome the urge to flee when she saw the little bit of him that - position: 8
one side, saw the enormous brown patch against the flowers of the - position: 3
wallpaper, and before she even realised it was gregor that she saw - position: 12
he saw was the door of his room being pulled open, his sister was - position: 2
changed, only his sister had stood up.  with his last glance he saw - position: 13
the men's intentions and as they leaned over the landing they saw how - position: 12
writing;  mr. samsa saw that the cleaner wanted to start describing - position: 4

lead:
family lead", said gregor to himself, and, gazing into the darkness, - position: 2

accordance:
- you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.f.3, a full refund of any - position: 4
providing copies of project gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance - position: 9

loss:
was not a loss but a great advantage. - position: 4

hurry:
their way in there too.  the charwoman was always in a hurry, and - position: 12
hurry she still did, so that everyone in the flat knew when she'd - position: 1
them all about it, she suddenly remembered what a hurry she was in - position: 10

information:
included with the permission of the copyright holder.  information on - position: 9
address specified in section 4, "information about donations to - position: 6
section  2.  information about the mission of project gutenberg-tm - position: 3
section 3.  information about the project gutenberg literary archive - position: 3
information can be found at the foundation's web site and official - position: 1
for additional contact information: - position: 4
section 4.  information about donations to the project gutenberg - position: 3
section 5.  general information about project gutenberg-tm electronic - position: 4
this web site includes information about project gutenberg-tm, - position: 5

revulsion:
swallow any revulsion for him and to be patient, just to be patient. - position: 3

side:
knocking at one of the side doors, gently, but with his fist. - position: 6
gregor!"  at the other side door his sister came plaintively: - position: 5
first, carefully turning his head to the side.  this he managed - position: 8
unfortunately, even the other side of the narrow street was - position: 5
"mother?" his sister called from the other side.  they communicated - position: 8
which he leant over to one side as he peered out at the others. - position: 7
grey-black building on the other side of the street - which was a - position: 6
an end.  he held back the urge to move but swayed from side to side - position: 13
an end.  he held back the urge to move but swayed from side to side - position: 15
regard for what might happen.  one side of his body lifted itself, - position: 7
by himself, the little legs along one side hung quivering in the air - position: 8
while those on the other side were pressed painfully against the - position: 6
left side seemed like one, painfully stretched scar,  and he limped - position: 2
left side make it difficult to eat the food - he was only able to - position: 2
once during that long evening, the door on one side of the room was - position: 10
on the other side did the same; it seemed that someone needed to - position: 4
chest, pushing and pulling at it from side to side by herself - position: 8
chest, pushing and pulling at it from side to side by herself - position: 10
one side, saw the enormous brown patch against the flowers of the - position: 2
one on each side, to the movements of her hands.  drawn in by the - position: 4
was playing so beautifully.  her face was leant to one side, - position: 11
side, they hurried out of bed.  mr. samsa threw the blanket over his - position: 1

greeting:
the visitor's first words of greeting and he knew who it was - the - position: 6

wasted:
at the enormous size of the soles of his boots, but wasted no time - position: 12

imposed:
imposed by the copyright holder on this work are set forth at the - position: 1
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  additional terms will be linked - position: 2

son:
company, accuse his parents of having a lazy son, and accept the - position: 9
"let me go and see gregor, he is my unfortunate son! can't you - position: 11

arm:
raising a heavy fur muff that covered the whole of her lower arm - position: 13
soon; grete had put her arm around her mother and was nearly - position: 6
uniform with his wife on one arm and his daughter on the other.  all - position: 7
face against her father's arm. - position: 5

sick:
with no understanding.  what about if he reported sick? but that - position: 9

roll:
inedible two days before; a dry roll and some bread spread with - position: 7

agreement:
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  if you do not agree to abide by all - position: 2
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy - position: 5
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or - position: 4
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  there are a few - position: 10
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  see - position: 10
gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement - position: 11
this agreement for keeping the project gutenberg-tm name associated with - position: 2
the work.  you can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by - position: 12
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement - position: 13
- you comply with all other terms of this agreement for free - position: 9
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from - position: 4
gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all - position: 6
trademark owner, and any distributor under this agreement will not be - position: 8
if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the - position: 10
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be - position: 8
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be - position: 10
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions. - position: 4
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production, - position: 3

failure:
your employer did suggest a possible reason for your failure to - position: 10
had first seen him.  his disappointment at the failure of his plan, - position: 9

fairbanks:
fairbanks, ak, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered - position: 1

noticed:
now."  the change in gregor's voice probably could not be noticed - position: 11
a small symptom of it last night already.  they must have noticed - position: 12
good to eat.  however, his sister noticed the full dish immediately - position: 7
noticed gregor's new way of entertaining himself - he had, after - position: 1
insist; she had indeed noticed that gregor needed a lot of room to - position: 5
his sister arrived home in the evening than she noticed the change - position: 10
the family having noticed it, lain in his room in its darkest - position: 4
no-one noticed him, though.  the family was totally preoccupied with - position: 2
concentrated on crawling as fast as he could and hardly noticed that - position: 11

covered:
raising a heavy fur muff that covered the whole of her lower arm - position: 7
where the itch was, and saw that it was covered with lots of little - position: 10
uncertainly round the living room, covered his eyes with his hands - position: 6
from the evening meal, covered in white sauce that had gone hard; a - position: 5
couch on his back and arranged it so that he was completely covered - position: 13
belly.  this picture at least, now totally covered by gregor, would - position: 8
all the more reason to keep himself hidden as he was covered in the - position: 12
could not understand how he had covered that distance in his weak - position: 7
inflamed area around it, which was entirely covered in white dust. - position: 8

spring:
windowpanes, perhaps indicating that spring was coming, she began to - position: 5

organized:
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the - position: 4

shut:
must have tried it a hundred times, shut his eyes so that he - position: 8
was no sound of the door banging shut again; they must have left it - position: 8
bleeding, deep into his room.  the door was slammed shut with the - position: 10
room being carefully shut had woken him.  the light from the - position: 4
shocked that she lost control of herself and slammed the door shut - position: 12
shut with her foot.  so now gregor was shut out from his mother, - position: 1
shut with her foot.  so now gregor was shut out from his mother, - position: 9
he was hardly inside his room before the door was hurriedly shut, - position: 12
but not without looking back at the body.  the cleaner shut the door - position: 11

gone:
gone up to the boss and told him just what i think, tell him - position: 1
from the evening meal, covered in white sauce that had gone hard; a - position: 11
after a while, clearly having gone over to the door, and only then - position: 6
it last christmas - had christmas really come and gone already? - if - position: 9
would have gone of his own free will.  we wouldn't have a brother - position: 3

locked:
though, even apart from the fact that all the doors were locked? - position: 12
vain.  the previous morning while the doors were locked everyone had - position: 9
had even asked to be allowed to keep the kitchen locked at all times - position: 11
door.  the maid, of course, had locked herself in her kitchen so - position: 7
bolted and locked.  the sudden noise behind gregor so startled him - position: 3

nice:
illustrated magazine and housed in a nice, gilded frame.  it showed - position: 7
how nice it is; it's hanging up in his room; you'll see it as soon - position: 2
milk did not taste at all nice.  milk like this was normally his - position: 7
such a nice home for his sister and parents.  but what now, if all - position: 3
of wearing nice clothes, sleeping late, helping out in the business, - position: 3
with the nice furniture he had inherited? that would have let him - position: 3
however nice they might be.  "i'd like to eat something", said - position: 2

excitement:
the excitement, "i'll open up immediately, just a moment.  i'm - position: 2

wrong:
more, would he have been entirely wrong in this case? gregor did in - position: 7
"gregor, gregor", he called, "what's wrong?"  and after a short - position: 6
gather, he chose the wrong direction, hit hard against the lower - position: 5
"what is wrong? you barricade yourself in your room, give us no more - position: 3
sound.  they had realised, though, that there was something wrong - position: 10
anyone could accuse us of doing anything wrong." - position: 8

twisted:
other.  mr. samsa twisted round in his chair to look at them and sat - position: 4

computer:
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by - position: 1
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by - position: 4

driven:
pressed against his open mouth and slowly retreating as if driven by - position: 11
driven out our tenants, it obviously wants to take over the whole - position: 1

big:
i'll make the big change.  first of all though, i've got to get up, - position: 4
close the matter with a big, loud "no", and no more would be said. - position: 6
complaint was that although the flat was much too big for their - position: 10

edge:
gregor had pushed his head forward, right to the edge of the couch, - position: 10

painfully:
and would move about painfully.  "this is something that can't be - position: 5
door and was painfully injured, leaving vile brown flecks on it, - position: 4
while those on the other side were pressed painfully against the - position: 9
left side seemed like one, painfully stretched scar,  and he limped - position: 6
normally unkempt white hair was combed down painfully close to his - position: 8
one day - were painfully insistent on things' being tidy.  this - position: 4

overnight:
representative almost overnight, bringing with it the chance to earn - position: 3

since:
in private, but since you cause me to waste my time here for no good - position: 4
of the first good news that gregor heard since he had first been - position: 9
partly because it was a long time since he had been occupied with - position: 8
father; the sixteen year old maid had carried on bravely since the - position: 11
that was the first word she had spoken to him directly since his - position: 12
sleep if he was to be up at six to get to work.  but since he had - position: 15
meant not only in their own room but, since they had taken a room in - position: 9
and kiss her neck, which, since she had been going out to work, she - position: 6
to the living room where grete had been sleeping since the three - position: 10

headboard:
towards the headboard so that he could lift his head better; found - position: 3

want:
didn't you want to go somewhere?"  that gentle voice! gregor was - position: 3
bed - where he now tried to get himself upright.  he really did want - position: 13
to open the door, really did want to let them see him and to speak - position: 7
if he did not want to fall flat on his back before entering the - position: 5
frightening end? that was something that gregor did not want to - position: 10
dragged the things he did want to eat a little way away from them - position: 6
mother certainly did not want him to starve either, but perhaps it - position: 5
door if he did not want to chase his sister away, and she had to - position: 6
it, but i can.  i don't want to call this monster my brother, all i - position: 7
the cleaner still did not seem to want to leave that they looked up - position: 8
you want then?", asked  mrs. samsa, whom the cleaner had the most - position: 2

obtaining:
if you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a project - position: 7
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon - position: 12

archive:
1.c.  the project gutenberg literary archive foundation ("the foundation" - position: 6
project gutenberg literary archive foundation.  royalty payments - position: 4
sent to the project gutenberg literary archive foundation at the - position: 7
the project gutenberg literary archive foundation." - position: 5
both the project gutenberg literary archive foundation and michael - position: 6
gutenberg literary archive foundation, the owner of the project - position: 3
gutenberg literary archive foundation was created to provide a secure - position: 3
to learn more about the project gutenberg literary archive foundation - position: 9
section 3.  information about the project gutenberg literary archive - position: 9
the project gutenberg literary archive foundation is a non profit - position: 5
literary archive foundation are tax deductible to the full extent - position: 2
literary archive foundation - position: 2
archive foundation, how to help produce our new ebooks, and how to - position: 1

additions:
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any - position: 6

written:
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  if you - position: 1
your written explanation.  the person or entity that provided you with - position: 2
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  to - position: 6

phrase:
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "project - position: 11
phrase "project gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "project - position: 1
phrase "project gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "project - position: 9
with the phrase "project gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the - position: 3

loudly:
care to do this not too loudly as even this might well sound - position: 7
and landed loudly on the floor. - position: 3
to work.  he could not help panting loudly with the effort and had - position: 8
as she turned the key in the lock she said loudly to her parents "at - position: 11
doors and shout loudly into the darkness of the bedrooms: "come and - position: 4

irritation:
in irritation.  "well?", asked  mr. samsa.  the charwoman stood in - position: 2
had been a source of irritation to  mr. samsa all the time she had - position: 6

tightly:
against the back of a nearby chair and held tightly to the edges of - position: 10
walk together on a sunday or public holiday wrapped up tightly in - position: 11

it'll:
coughing to listen, "it'll be the death of both of you, i can see it - position: 4

occurred:
fresh air it occurred to him that if he let himself fall it would be - position: 4
back and forth - it occurred to him how simple everything would be - position: 5
how considerate he was but now it hardly occurred to him that he had - position: 9

joined:
joined in with the words: "and we also give immediate notice."  with - position: 1

arranged:
couch on his back and arranged it so that he was completely covered - position: 6

approached:
she approached the room, gregor could hear his mother express her - position: 2

wondered:
out to be pure imagination and he wondered how his imaginings would - position: 8

last:
last updated: may 20, 2012 - position: 1
but when he had at last got his head out of the bed and into the - position: 6
last night, my parents know about it, perhaps better than me, i had - position: 1
a small symptom of it last night already.  they must have noticed - position: 6
slid down again, but he finally gave himself one last swing and - position: 10
he looked back for the last time.  gregor made a run for him; he - position: 6
himself as he liked.  gregor's little legs whirred, at last he could - position: 10
and spread himself out, all his senses in confusion.  the last thing - position: 11
it last christmas - had christmas really come and gone already? - if - position: 2
changed, only his sister had stood up.  with his last glance he saw - position: 10
last!". - position: 1
completely, and his last breath flowed weakly from his nostrils. - position: 4

blow:
it was a simple matter to throw off the covers; he only had to blow - position: 15
lethal blow to his back or head from the stick in his father's hand - position: 2

respect:
respect for his uniform and bearing.  the door to the entrance hall - position: 1
respect he owed to his tenants.  he urged them and pressed them - position: 1
him with respect.  as it is this animal is persecuting us, it's - position: 3
respect for.  "yes", she answered, and broke into a friendly laugh - position: 1

enveloped:
enveloped in morning fog and the view had little confidence or cheer - position: 1

first:
first posted: may 13, 2002 - position: 1
i'll make the big change.  first of all though, i've got to get up, - position: 6
it, the words could be made out at first but then there was a sort - position: 9
the first thing he wanted to do was to get up in peace without being - position: 2
doubt that the change in his voice was nothing more than the first - position: 13
control.  if he wanted to bend one of them, then that was the first - position: 14
the first thing he wanted to do was get the lower part of his body - position: 2
first, carefully turning his head to the side.  this he managed - position: 1
the visitor's first words of greeting and he knew who it was - the - position: 3
he really could be at the station for eight o'clock.  the first few - position: 12
with him, and were ready to help.  the first response to his - position: 9
open before he could be seen.  he had first to slowly turn himself - position: 9
what caused them.  please, don't go away, at least first say - position: 10
had that happened than, for the first time that day, he began to - position: 7
front of him and seemed, at first, quite engrossed in herself, but - position: 7
doctor and the locksmith that first morning to get them out of the - position: 6
especially at first, that was not about him in some way, even if - position: 3
the very first day the maid had fallen to her knees and begged - position: 3
even before the first day had come to an end, his father had - position: 4
of the first good news that gregor heard since he had first been - position: 3
of the first good news that gregor heard since he had first been - position: 12
understand everything the first time.  from these repeated explanations - position: 4
not been working - the first holiday in a life that had been full of - position: 5
gregor would always first let go of the door and then throw himself - position: 4
for the first fourteen days, gregor's parents could not bring - position: 3
his father and sister at first persuaded her against it.  gregor - position: 6
joy, but once at the door she went silent.  first, of course, his - position: 10
thought at first, but all the furniture apart from the all-important - position: 3
came back first while grete in the next room had her arms round the - position: 3
not knowing what he should save first before his attention was - position: 7
that was the first word she had spoken to him directly since his - position: 4
home.  "what's happened?" were his first words; grete's appearance - position: 6
with that - he knew full well, right from the first day of his new - position: 10
and there were little balls of dust and filth.  at first, gregor - position: 11
first she would call to him as she did so with words that she - position: 1
first he thought it was distress at the state of his room that - position: 1
they were left where they landed when they had first been thrown - position: 10
else.  at first he moved it because, with no other room free where - position: 3
the violin playing; at first, the three gentlemen had put their - position: 5
middle of the three gentlemen first smiled at his two friends, - position: 6
had first seen him.  his disappointment at the failure of his plan, - position: 2
made her usual brief look in on gregor and at first found nothing - position: 11
straight line towards the man.  at first, he stood there still, - position: 7
her work for that morning.  the three of them at first just nodded - position: 11
first to get up and stretch out her young body. - position: 1

red:
after another.  these little, red apples rolled about on the floor, - position: 5

copy:
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  you may copy it, give it away or - position: 7
to copy out the contract, these gentlemen are always still sitting - position: 2
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the united states without - position: 4
if you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a project - position: 9
whenever any copy of a project gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the - position: 3
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  you may copy it, give it away or - position: 7
1.e.5.  do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this - position: 4
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon - position: 1
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon - position: 7
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon - position: 14
money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the - position: 9
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a - position: 10
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  if the second copy - position: 13

prepare:
prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax - position: 1
prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax - position: 7

toothless:
not possible to perform anything with jaws that are toothless - position: 10

contract:
to copy out the contract, these gentlemen are always still sitting - position: 5
liability, breach of warranty or breach of contract except those - position: 8

mississippi:
state of mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the internal - position: 3

dry:
inedible two days before; a dry roll and some bread spread with - position: 6

swayed:
an end.  he held back the urge to move but swayed from side to side - position: 11
been working for them, swayed gently in all directions.  "what is it - position: 5

feeling:
dark.  he pushed himself over to the door, feeling his way clumsily - position: 9
of what he was doing other than a slight feeling of shame, he - position: 10
gregor's father staggered back to his seat, feeling his way with his - position: 8

disappeared:
spread themselves out around her as her head disappeared down onto - position: 9
disappeared; his shouts resounding all around the staircase.  the - position: 1
provincial hotel, a tender memory that appeared and disappeared - position: 9
glad when they disappeared.  other times he was not at all in the - position: 4
steps.  as they turned the corner on each floor they disappeared and - position: 11

property:
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property - position: 11
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a - position: 1

internal:
state of mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the internal - position: 11

cheek:
it was and sit close together, cheek to cheek; his mother would - position: 7
it was and sit close together, cheek to cheek; his mother would - position: 9

suffered:
and earn money? she suffered from asthma and it was a strain for her - position: 5
remained there as a visible reminder of his injury.  he had suffered - position: 12

dizziness:
slightly unwell, an attack of dizziness, i haven't been able to get - position: 6

noises:
stop gregor's father as he drove him back, making hissing noises at - position: 11
seemed remarkable to gregor that above all the various noises of - position: 10

add:
said nothing she would add, so that he would not feel selfish, that - position: 5

feather:
to.  the almost vertical little ostrich feather on her hat, which - position: 7

sucking:
already sucking greedily at the cheese which had immediately, almost - position: 2

destination:
intentions, as soon as they reached their destination grete was the - position: 8

stepped:
they worked and he could only hear their feet as they stepped - position: 12
but grete's words had made her mother quite worried, she stepped to - position: 11
himself.  the gentlemen stepped back into the room and waited. - position: 4
the three gentlemen stepped out of their room and looked round in - position: 4

trusted:
suspicious that only the chief clerk could be trusted to have the - position: 9

struggled:
his legs as they struggled against each other even harder than - position: 5

doors:
knocking at one of the side doors, gently, but with his fist. - position: 7
from his travelling, of locking all doors at night even when he was - position: 7
even through all the doors would probably raise concern if not - position: 5
though, even apart from the fact that all the doors were locked? - position: 10
around one of the double doors, and he had to do it very carefully - position: 6
the other of the double doors so that gregor would have enough space - position: 6
vain.  the previous morning while the doors were locked everyone had - position: 7
one of the doors and the other had clearly been unlocked some time - position: 4
her not to keep slamming the doors but with her strength and in her - position: 7
doors and shout loudly into the darkness of the bedrooms: "come and - position: 1

leaned:
the men's intentions and as they leaned over the landing they saw how - position: 7

upright:
a lady fitted out with a fur hat and fur boa who sat upright, - position: 14
bed - where he now tried to get himself upright.  he really did want - position: 9
stood there upright; the lower part of his body was in serious pain - position: 3
himself upright against it using the adhesive on the tips of his - position: 2
upright with his mouth, and hung onto the key or pushed it down - position: 1
have allowed gregor the time to get himself upright as preparation - position: 9
mind in his present state, pressed upright against the door and - position: 7
definite ideas.  he sat upright, played with his uniform cap between - position: 5
mr. and  mrs. samsa sat upright there in their marriage bed and had - position: 6

injured:
a miracle if his head were not injured, so he became afraid to carry - position: 8
door and was painfully injured, leaving vile brown flecks on it, - position: 5
injured in the events of that morning - it was nearly a miracle that - position: 1

physical:
destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium - position: 10
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with - position: 6

director:
chief executive and director - position: 4

scream:
gregor fell immediately over and, with a little scream as he sought - position: 9

monogram:
scalp.  he took his cap, with its gold monogram from, probably, some - position: 9

walked:
long uniform coat, and, with look of determination, walked towards - position: 9

hat:
a lady fitted out with a fur hat and fur boa who sat upright, - position: 8
(the chief clerk had left it behind on a chair, along with his hat - position: 14
again, a cashier from a hat shop for whom his attention had been - position: 6
to.  the almost vertical little ostrich feather on her hat, which - position: 10

reproaches:
importune him with little reproaches and warnings he would keep - position: 5

pointing:
pointing, without wasting any more words, with his forefinger at - position: 1

1.e.3:
1.e.3.  if an individual project gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted - position: 1

three:
instance, it only took him two or three evenings, you'll be amazed - position: 8
the salesmen and the apprentices, that stupid teaboy, two or three - position: 11
three gentlemen.  these earnest gentlemen - all three of them had - position: 1
three gentlemen.  these earnest gentlemen - all three of them had - position: 7
kitchen.  the three gentlemen had already finished their meal, the - position: 3
courtesy towards the three gentlemen, did not even dare to sit on - position: 4
the violin playing; at first, the three gentlemen had put their - position: 7
middle of the three gentlemen first smiled at his two friends, - position: 4
to think it more important to calm the three gentlemen before - position: 9
which, under pressure from her father, the three gentlemen were more - position: 8
before the three gentlemen had reached the room.  gregor's father - position: 3
the three gentlemen shouted like thunder and stamped his foot and - position: 2
throughout all this, gregor had lain still where the three gentlemen - position: 10
the plates left by the three gentlemen after their meal, and - position: 6
until he heard the clock tower strike three in the morning.  he - position: 8
to the living room where grete had been sleeping since the three - position: 12
for that". he crossed himself, and the three women followed his - position: 8
the three gentlemen stepped out of their room and looked round in - position: 2
middle of the three gentlemen somewhat disconcerted, and he smiled - position: 4
connection with their leader.  once there, all three took their hats - position: 8
the three gentlemen made slow but steady progress down the many - position: 2
three letters of excusal,  mr. samsa to his employers,  mrs. samsa - position: 1
her work for that morning.  the three of them at first just nodded - position: 7
after that, the three of them left the flat together, which was - position: 4
other about their work but all three had jobs which were very good - position: 7

occupied:
room.  he was still occupied with this difficult movement, unable to - position: 5
partly because it was a long time since he had been occupied with - position: 12
speaking only to her father, as her mother was too occupied with - position: 11

pleasures:
joining in with a few modest pleasures and most of all playing the - position: 7

crash:
landing on the floor with a crash.  but now, of course, he had far - position: 7

visible:
remained there as a visible reminder of his injury.  he had suffered - position: 5

helping:
of wearing nice clothes, sleeping late, helping out in the business, - position: 7
with strangers and others he had forgotten, but instead of helping - position: 11

nightgown:
nightgown when he came back in the evenings; who was hardly even - position: 1
uniform off even at home; while his nightgown hung unused on its peg - position: 8

fetch:
for the chance to go and fetch it herself.  when his father then - position: 7
gregor's father was not there and fetch his mother to help her.  as - position: 7
transformation.  she ran into the other room to fetch some kind of - position: 9
and the hand that held it.  the woman most likely meant to fetch the - position: 13

hats:
connection with their leader.  once there, all three took their hats - position: 11

disclaim:
gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all - position: 7

awoke:
it was not until it was getting dark that evening that gregor awoke - position: 13

employees:
suspicious at the slightest shortcoming? were all employees, every - position: 8
make mistakes about his employees and judge them more harshly than - position: 5
the employees at the banking institute; above the high, stiff collar - position: 2
from poor people, gregor's father brought bank employees their - position: 8
1.f.1.  project gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable - position: 6
fairbanks, ak, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered - position: 8

nearest:
now he also saw him - he was the nearest to the door - his hand - position: 9

character:
character set encoding: ascii - position: 1

back:
his armour-like back, and if he lifted his head a little he could - position: 3
himself onto his right, he always rolled back to where he was.  he - position: 8
slight itch up on his belly; pushed himself slowly up on his back - position: 13
to feel the place with one of his legs he drew it quickly back - position: 14
he slid back into his former position.  "getting up early all the - position: 3
instance, whenever i go back to the guest house during the morning - position: 5
long pauses between each, individual word.  his father went back to - position: 10
it took just as much effort to get back to where he had been - position: 9
as if he perhaps expected the total stillness to bring things back - position: 12
probably avoid injuring it.  his back seemed to be quite hard, and - position: 6
back and forth - it occurred to him how simple everything would be - position: 1
only have to push their arms under the dome of his back, peel him - position: 12
and gregor's back was also more elastic than he had thought, which - position: 3
against the back of a nearby chair and held tightly to the edges of - position: 3
better.  he felt that he had been drawn back in among people, and - position: 9
of the lock as it snapped back was gregor's sign that he could break - position: 7
if he did not want to fall flat on his back before entering the - position: 11
wanting to knock gregor back into his room.  then he looked - position: 5
we arrive back home exhausted from a trip, and that's when we feel - position: 3
speak, and, with protruding lips, only stared back at him over his - position: 8
future.  the chief clerk had to be held back, calmed down, convinced - position: 9
in tears while gregor was still lying peacefully on his back.  and - position: 11
an end.  he held back the urge to move but swayed from side to side - position: 5
he looked back for the last time.  gregor made a run for him; he - position: 3
left, and used them to drive gregor back into his room, stamping his - position: 8
stop gregor's father as he drove him back, making hissing noises at - position: 8
been allowed to turn round he would have been back in his room - position: 10
lethal blow to his back or head from the stick in his father's hand - position: 5
hissing, he made a mistake and turned himself back a little the way - position: 9
be got back into his room as quickly as possible.  nor would he ever - position: 3
back again in disappointment; not only did the pain in his tender - position: 1
from the dish and crawled back into the centre of the room. - position: 6
hurried under the couch.  it pressed down on his back a little, and - position: 10
hurried back under the couch.  but he needed great self-control to - position: 2
lid, and carried everything out.  she had hardly turned her back - position: 11
notice the chair twice before she would always push it back to its - position: 11
there, but not only did she not come in, she went straight back and - position: 13
before his sister came back and she seemed much more uneasy than - position: 5
couch on his back and arranged it so that he was completely covered - position: 4
though, she had to be held back by force, which made her call out: - position: 7
way it was before so that when gregor comes back to us again he'll - position: 10
came back first while grete in the next room had her arms round the - position: 2
very still, remained there a moment, and then went back out to - position: 10
came back. - position: 2
they had not allowed themselves a long rest and came back quite - position: 11
and with a tremor in her voice: "come on, let's go back in the - position: 12
back into his room without delay, that it would not be necessary to - position: 1
drive him back but that they had only to open the door and he would - position: 3
angry and glad at the same time.  gregor drew his head back from the - position: 12
there entombed in his bed when gregor came back from his business - position: 9
nightgown when he came back in the evenings; who was hardly even - position: 5
put his hands in his trouser pockets, pushing back the bottom of his - position: 9
thrown without much force glanced against gregor's back and slid off - position: 8
it, hit squarely and lodged in his back; gregor wanted to drag - position: 8
that he had been dozing - and then he would go back to sleep again - position: 11
with a few air holes in it; the main thing holding the family back - position: 14
strangers, his sister ran back and forth behind her desk at the - position: 5
do any more.  and the injury in gregor's back began to hurt as much - position: 9
as when it was new.  after they had come back from taking his father - position: 10
in gregor's room and, highly aggrieved, ran back into the living - position: 8
the chair in her hand had been slammed down into gregor's back. - position: 12
round again, and she calmly put the chair back in the corner. - position: 9
things back out again when she had time and the opportunity, or to - position: 2
it was sufficiently cooked or whether it should be sent back to the - position: 11
the others, and now they leant back in their chairs reading them and - position: 7
called back gregor's father as if he had been the violin player - position: 2
himself.  the gentlemen stepped back into the room and waited. - position: 5
his back and sides; he was much too indifferent to everything now to - position: 2
lay on his back and wipe himself on the carpet like he had used to - position: 4
they  withdrew back to the window with their heads sunk and talking - position: 3
shaking his head, and then looked back at gregor.  his father seemed - position: 7
attempted to drive them back into their room at the same time as - position: 5
back towards their room only very slowly.  meanwhile gregor's sister - position: 1
gregor's father staggered back to his seat, feeling his way with his - position: 4
could go back into his room, although that was in itself quite - position: 3
"maybe now they'll let me turn round", thought gregor and went back - position: 12
he could already hardly feel the decayed apple in his back or the - position: 11
he thought back of his family with emotion and love.  if it was - position: 3
movement as if she wanted to hold back the broom, but did not - position: 8
but not without looking back at the body.  the cleaner shut the door - position: 5
away from the landing and went, as if relieved, back into the flat. - position: 10
sunshine, all to themselves.  leant back comfortably on their seats, - position: 6

exhaustion:
nearly closed with exhaustion; his sister sat next to his father - position: 4

noticeable:
made the sound muffled and not too noticeable.  he had not held his - position: 8

inaccessible:
him and his family they were all of them inaccessible, and he was - position: 10

confusion:
in his confusion as the whole room began to spin around him he fell - position: 3
and spread himself out, all his senses in confusion.  the last thing - position: 9

room:
"what's happened to me?" he thought.  it wasn't a dream.  his room, - position: 12
a proper human room although a little too small, lay peacefully - position: 4
"something's fallen down in there", said the chief clerk in the room - position: 12
highly polished boots could now be heard in the adjoining room. - position: 11
from the room on his right, gregor's sister whispered to him to let - position: 3
"gregor", said his father now from the room to his left, "the chief - position: 8
sure he'll be good enough to forgive the untidiness of your room." - position: 12
how nice it is; it's hanging up in his room; you'll see it as soon - position: 10
again.  "no", said gregor.  in the room on his right there followed - position: 7
a painful silence; in the room on his left his sister began to cry. - position: 6
"what is wrong? you barricade yourself in your room, give us no more - position: 9
across gregor's room.  "you'll have to go for the doctor straight - position: 3
quiet in the next room.  perhaps his parents were sat at the table - position: 5
"listen", said the chief clerk in the next room, "he's turning the - position: 9
room.  he was still occupied with this difficult movement, unable to - position: 1
wanting to knock gregor back into his room.  then he looked - position: 8
uncertainly round the living room, covered his eyes with his hands - position: 5
so gregor did not go into the room, but leant against the inside of - position: 8
there had been some secret prohibition on leaving the room.  it was - position: 10
movement, drew his foot from the living room, and rushed forward in - position: 8
left, and used them to drive gregor back into his room, stamping his - position: 11
across the room, despite the chilly weather, gregor's mother had - position: 3
been allowed to turn round he would have been back in his room - position: 13
be got back into his room as quickly as possible.  nor would he ever - position: 6
bleeding, deep into his room.  the door was slammed shut with the - position: 5
room being carefully shut had woken him.  the light from the - position: 1
from the dish and crawled back into the centre of the room. - position: 12
been lit in the living room.  his father at this time would normally - position: 6
down the room. - position: 3
once during that long evening, the door on one side of the room was - position: 13
enter the room but thought better of it.  gregor went and waited - position: 3
visitor into the room in some way or at least to find out who it - position: 4
it was not until late at night that the gaslight in the living room - position: 14
come into gregor's room any more until morning; that gave him plenty - position: 4
his life.  for some reason, the tall, empty room where he was forced - position: 9
front room and looked anxiously in.  she did not see him straight - position: 2
entering the room of someone seriously ill or even of a stranger. - position: 3
stay there even for the short time that his sister was in the room, - position: 14
his room.  it was only later, when she had become a little more used - position: 2
incarcerated in his room.  he had thought that nothing at all - position: 4
exact position by the window after she had tidied up the room, and - position: 12
unpleasant for him, now, whenever she entered the room.  no sooner - position: 9
gregor's room, then she would go straight to the window and pull it - position: 2
same room with him with the windows closed. - position: 2
she came into the room a little earlier than usual and found him - position: 5
most horrible.  in itself, his sister's not coming into the room - position: 11
themselves to come into the room to see him.  he would often hear - position: 6
gregor's room while his sister tidied up in there, and as soon as - position: 2
not give him much room to crawl about, it was hard to just lie - position: 5
she approached the room, gregor could hear his mother express her - position: 4
sister came in and looked round to see that everything in the room - position: 13
home and leaving it in the middle of the room it would be in his way - position: 10
used to this furniture in his room for a long time and it would make - position: 7
him feel abandoned to be in an empty room like that.  then, quietly, - position: 9
cope for himself? i think it'd be best to leave the room exactly the - position: 12
why he had seriously wanted his room emptied out.  had he really - position: 7
wanted to transform his room into a cave, a warm room fitted out - position: 5
wanted to transform his room into a cave, a warm room fitted out - position: 11
insist; she had indeed noticed that gregor needed a lot of room to - position: 12
dare enter a room dominated by gregor crawling about the bare walls - position: 4
already looked uneasy in his room, she soon stopped speaking and - position: 6
of the room than gregor poked his head out from under the couch to - position: 3
came back first while grete in the next room had her arms round the - position: 9
his room out; taking away everything that was dear to him; they had - position: 2
so, while the women were leant against the desk in the other room - position: 13
door into the living room so that he could watch the women when they - position: 5
living room for a while?"  gregor could see what grete had in mind, - position: 2
transformation.  she ran into the other room to fetch some kind of - position: 7
too, ran into the next room as if he could advise his sister like in - position: 6
in his confusion as the whole room began to spin around him he fell - position: 7
possible.  so he fled to the door of his room and pressed himself - position: 10
back into his room without delay, that it would not be necessary to - position: 4
bank, and threw it in an arc right across the room onto the sofa, - position: 11
slightly.  in this way they went round the room several times - position: 9
he saw was the door of his room being pulled open, his sister was - position: 8
his room - crawling over the ceiling was out of the question - but - position: 2
up for by the door to the living room being left open every evening. - position: 9
before it was opened and then, lying in the darkness of his room - position: 13
where he could not be seen from the living room, he could watch the - position: 10
he was tired and getting into the damp bed in some small hotel room. - position: 14
point to gregor's room and say "close that door, grete", and then, - position: 4
when he was in the dark again, they would sit in the next room and - position: 14
into his room with her foot before she rushed out to work in the - position: 3
cleared up the room in the evening, but now she could not have been - position: 4
gregor's room was for her and her alone.  gregor's mother did once - position: 2
thoroughly clean his room, and needed to use several bucketfuls of - position: 4
in gregor's room and, highly aggrieved, ran back into the living - position: 3
room where, despite her mothers raised and imploring hands, she - position: 1
of gregor's room to his sister; from her left, gregor's sister - position: 3
screamed at her that she was never to clean gregor's room again; - position: 11
room and found herself face to face with him.  he was taken totally - position: 1
only they had told this charwoman to clean up his room every day - position: 11
first he thought it was distress at the state of his room that - position: 12
there.  they had got into the habit of putting things into this room - position: 13
that they had no room for anywhere else, and there were now many - position: 5
meant not only in their own room but, since they had taken a room in - position: 7
meant not only in their own room but, since they had taken a room in - position: 14
their way into gregor's room.  the dustbins from the kitchen found - position: 5
else.  at first he moved it because, with no other room free where - position: 11
the gentlemen who rented the room would sometimes take their evening - position: 6
meal at home in the living room that was used by everyone, and so - position: 7
the door to this room was often kept closed in the evening.  but - position: 5
the family having noticed it, lain in his room in its darkest - position: 9
room slightly open, and it remained open when the gentlemen who - position: 1
rented the room came in in the evening and the light was put on. - position: 3
filled the room with its smell.  the gentlemen bent over the dishes - position: 3
father came into the living room before he went into the kitchen, - position: 6
like to come in and play for us here in the room, where it is, after - position: 12
himself.  the gentlemen stepped back into the room and waited. - position: 8
rented a room out before and therefore showed an exaggerated - position: 3
his head in the living room.  before, he had taken great pride in - position: 6
dust that lay everywhere in his room and flew up at the slightest - position: 7
room. - position: 1
come into his room with her violin, as no-one appreciated her - position: 4
his room, not while he lived, anyway; his shocking appearance - position: 2
door of his room at once to hiss and spit at the attackers; his - position: 4
attempted to drive them back into their room at the same time as - position: 8
they had had a neighbour like gregor in the next room without - position: 11
back towards their room only very slowly.  meanwhile gregor's sister - position: 4
struggling for breath where she was, and ran into the next room - position: 12
before the three gentlemen had reached the room.  gregor's father - position: 8
until, when he was already at the door of the room, the middle of - position: 11
immediate notice on my room.  for the days that i have been living - position: 5
could go back into his room, although that was in itself quite - position: 6
amazed at the great distance that separated him from his room, and - position: 11
he was hardly inside his room before the door was hurriedly shut, - position: 6
how they went into gregor's room.  on the way they opened the door - position: 6
to the living room where grete had been sleeping since the three - position: 4
the three gentlemen stepped out of their room and looked round in - position: 8
room.  they did so, and stood around gregor's corpse with their - position: 1
light in the room. - position: 4

encouraged:
key."  gregor was greatly encouraged by this; but they all should - position: 5

led:
hopes which, however, always led to the same conclusion: for the - position: 5
life led by the family during these two months, must have made him - position: 2

west:
809 north 1500 west, salt lake city, ut 84116, (801) 596-1887, email - position: 4

picked:
and overcoat), picked up a large newspaper from the table with his - position: 3
some surprise.  she immediately picked it up - using a rag, - position: 5
with his father and mother, they unfolded the serviettes and picked - position: 11

date:
release date: august 16, 2005 [ebook #5200] - position: 2
must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you - position: 9
business@pglaf.org.  email contact links and up to date contact - position: 8

wanting:
wanting to knock gregor back into his room.  then he looked - position: 1
almost whispering as if wanting gregor (whose whereabouts she did - position: 5

generations:
remain freely available for generations to come.  in 2001, the project - position: 5
and permanent future for project gutenberg-tm and future generations. - position: 9

appreciated:
them say how they appreciated all the new work his sister was doing - position: 5
come into his room with her violin, as no-one appreciated her - position: 10

taste:
milk did not taste at all nice.  milk like this was normally his - position: 4
taste, she brought him a whole selection of things, all spread out - position: 1

parents:
would be the best thing for me.  if i didn't have my parents to - position: 13
money together to pay off my parents' debt to him - another five or - position: 7
company, accuse his parents of having a lazy son, and accept the - position: 4
that happened his boss would once more pursue their parents with the - position: 10
unnecessary concern to your parents and you fail - and i mention - position: 5
parents and of your employer, and really must request a clear and - position: 1
reason i don't see why your parents should not also learn of it. - position: 7
last night, my parents know about it, perhaps better than me, i had - position: 4
don't make my parents suffer! there's no basis for any of the - position: 4
parents, "surely he's not trying to make fools of us". "oh, god!" - position: 1
quiet in the next room.  perhaps his parents were sat at the table - position: 8
our employer as well as having to look after my parents and my - position: 11
put into extreme danger.  that was something his parents did not - position: 9
gregor, though, had no time to spare for his parents now; the chief - position: 10
such a nice home for his sister and parents.  but what now, if all - position: 9
was put out, and now it was easy to see that his parents and sister had - position: 13
morning while his parents and the maid were still asleep, and the - position: 4
parents would sleep for a little while then as well, and gregor's - position: 1
parents did not like to hear this innocent talk, but gregor thought - position: 1
for the first fourteen days, gregor's parents could not bring - position: 7
consideration for his parents, gregor wanted to avoid being seen at - position: 4
parents about the things that concerned him.  this meant that his - position: 1
out of his chair and the two parents looked on astonished and - position: 8
everything for her to begin playing; his parents, who had never - position: 8
as she turned the key in the lock she said loudly to her parents "at - position: 14
with a pained smile, and grete followed her parents into the bedroom - position: 9

file:
**     please follow the copyright guidelines in this file.     ** - position: 9
***** this file should be named 5200.txt or 5200.zip ***** - position: 3
gutenberg-tm license (available with this file or online at - position: 6

person:
thought i knew you as a calm and sensible person, and now you - position: 10
shocking, what can suddenly happen to a person! i was quite alright - position: 8
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or - position: 12
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  if you - position: 5
your written explanation.  the person or entity that provided you with - position: 5
refund.  if you received the work electronically, the person or entity - position: 9

hart:
hart, the owner of the project gutenberg-tm trademark.  contact the - position: 1
professor michael s. hart is the originator of the project gutenberg-tm - position: 4

aggrieved:
in gregor's room and, highly aggrieved, ran back into the living - position: 6

austere:
hospital - could be seen quite clearly with the austere and regular - position: 9

freed:
day when he could have freed himself from that job would have come - position: 6

easily:
quite easily, and despite its breadth and its weight, the bulk of - position: 2
only a minor discourtesy, and a suitable excuse could easily be - position: 10
easily done, probably because of the practise he had already had in - position: 1
easily fall victim to gossip and chance and groundless complaints, - position: 1
easily by moving house; what they needed now was a flat that was - position: 1
the work.  you can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by - position: 5

find:
little legs would find a use.  should he really call for help - position: 4
visitor into the room in some way or at least to find out who it - position: 12
it was impossible for gregor to find out what they had told the - position: 7
find everything unchanged and he'll be able to forget the time in - position: 1
find himself next to the food that had been prepared for him he - position: 1
it they agreed that it would soon be time to find a good man for - position: 11

blouse:
screaming, his mother ran out in front of her in her blouse (as his - position: 12

incidental:
incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of such - position: 1

news:
although gregor wasn't able to hear any news directly he did listen - position: 8
of the first good news that gregor heard since he had first been - position: 5
good news to report, but would only do it if she was clearly asked - position: 2

lay:
himself transformed in his bed into a horrible vermin.  he lay on - position: 11
a proper human room although a little too small, lay peacefully - position: 10
lay spread out on the table - samsa was a travelling salesman - and - position: 1
earlier, but when he lay there sighing, and was once more watching - position: 5
this."  and he lay there quietly a while longer, breathing lightly - position: 4
intention of abandoning his family.  for the time being he just lay - position: 12
"so, i didn't need the locksmith after all". then he lay his head on - position: 11
ground one at a time.  the washing up from breakfast lay on the - position: 11
he lay at an angle in the doorway, one flank scraped on the white - position: 2
to remain made him feel uneasy as he lay there flat on the floor, - position: 9
eating and lay lethargic in the same place, his sister slowly turned - position: 3
straight into cash that he could lay on the table at home for the - position: 7
he lay there for a while, numb and immobile, all around him it was - position: 2
and he lay flat on the couch, bitter and immobile.  but his mother - position: 3
dust that lay everywhere in his room and flew up at the slightest - position: 3
lay on his back and wipe himself on the carpet like he had used to - position: 1
still playing, but then she suddenly pulled herself together, lay - position: 10
occasionally looked down at gregor as he lay there immobile. - position: 8
looked at him in unhappy silence.  his mother lay in her chair with - position: 9

awake:
stayed awake all that time, as they all could be distinctly heard as - position: 2

ears:
him, clearer than before - perhaps his ears had become used to the - position: 7

grasp:
teeth - how was he, then, to grasp the key? - but the lack of teeth - position: 7
they could grasp what she was saying.  but then, each from his own - position: 3

enthusiastic:
enthusiastic about things and feel they must get their way whenever - position: 1

spoken:
that was the first word she had spoken to him directly since his - position: 8
responded to being spoken to in that way, but just remained where he - position: 4

safe:
she wanted to take her mother somewhere safe and then chase him down - position: 8

gush:
to notice that the coffee pot had been knocked over and a gush of - position: 13

certainly:
should have been; it certainly must have rung.  yes, but was it - position: 5
certainly come round with the doctor from the medical insurance - position: 1
has been removed, he will certainly work with all the more diligence - position: 6
favourite drink, and his sister had certainly left it there for him - position: 7
mother certainly did not want him to starve either, but perhaps it - position: 2
much closer, but now it was certainly better the way his father had - position: 7
this money, however, was certainly not enough to enable the family - position: 5
while, knowing full well that she would certainly have liked to - position: 8
cook had left but she certainly would not have helped in this, she - position: 6
certainly be taken away by no-one.  he turned his head to face the - position: 1
from the wall.  well, she could certainly try it! he sat unyielding - position: 7
ceiling.  whatever he did, gregor had to admit that he certainly - position: 11
even so his mother ought certainly not to have taken her place. - position: 6

document:
some receipt or document from the little cash box he had saved from - position: 4

close:
especially when you have to go right up close because the boss is - position: 9
she would close the front door in the entrance hall and talk him out - position: 3
close the matter with a big, loud "no", and no more would be said. - position: 1
gregor only remained close to his sister now.  unlike him, she was - position: 4
had she come in than she would quickly close the door as a - position: 9
come very close to forgetting, and it had only been the voice of his - position: 3
normally unkempt white hair was combed down painfully close to his - position: 9
it was and sit close together, cheek to cheek; his mother would - position: 5
point to gregor's room and say "close that door, grete", and then, - position: 7
with her mouth open, clearly intending not to close her mouth until - position: 9
his sister began to play; father and mother paid close attention, - position: 10
hands in their pockets and come up far too close behind the music - position: 10
head close to the ground so that he could meet her eyes if the - position: 2

stairs:
see onto the landing and the stairs where they began their way down - position: 7
clerk had already reached the stairs; with his chin on the banister, - position: 6

refused:
so she refused to let her mother dissuade her.  gregor's mother - position: 3
with a kind of stubbornness, gregor's father refused to take his - position: 8

ended:
ended, his sister, nearly fully dressed, opened the door from the - position: 1

outstretched:
then she suddenly jumped up with her arms outstretched and her - position: 9
screamed: "oh god, oh god!"  arms outstretched, she fell onto the - position: 7
everything in detail but, with outstretched hand, he made it quite - position: 6

decayed:
he could already hardly feel the decayed apple in his back or the - position: 7

outside:
outside through the wooden door, as his mother was satisfied with - position: 1
again from outside.  but she seemed to regret her behaviour, as she - position: 3
them, father and mother, would often both wait outside the door of - position: 9
watched as it slowly began to get light everywhere outside the - position: 10
open country outside the town.  they had the tram, filled with warm - position: 3
a constant state of change.  if you are outside the united states, check - position: 9
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the united - position: 10
outside the united states.  u.s. laws alone swamp our small staff. - position: 1

hearing:
hard of hearing.  well, there's still some hope; once i've got the - position: 3
hearing these words from his mother made gregor realise that the - position: 1
dissuade him from it.  on hearing all this, his sister would break - position: 6

ut:
809 north 1500 west, salt lake city, ut 84116, (801) 596-1887, email - position: 8

smoking:
smoking.  when the violin began playing they became attentive, stood - position: 1

catching:
catching their breath, he sallied out, changed direction four times - position: 1

grete's:
on his picture.  he would rather jump at grete's face. - position: 9
but grete's words had made her mother quite worried, she stepped to - position: 2
home.  "what's happened?" were his first words; grete's appearance - position: 8

despair:
despair, and gregor's only concern at that time had been to arrange - position: 1
despair, and the thought that they had been struck with a misfortune - position: 1
had overcome the despair she had fallen into when her playing was - position: 4

states:
one owns a united states copyright in these works, so the foundation - position: 5
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the united states without - position: 11
collection are in the public domain in the united states.  if an - position: 10
individual work is in the public domain in the united states and you are - position: 11
located in the united states, we do not claim a right to prevent you from - position: 5
a constant state of change.  if you are outside the united states, check - position: 12
states. - position: 1
and distributed to anyone in the united states without paying any fees - position: 8
1.f.5.  some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied - position: 3
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the united - position: 8
states.  compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a - position: 1
while we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we - position: 10
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who - position: 9
outside the united states.  u.s. laws alone swamp our small staff. - position: 4

pockets:
put his hands in his trouser pockets, pushing back the bottom of his - position: 7
had filled his pockets with fruit from the bowl on the sideboard and - position: 4
hands in their pockets and come up far too close behind the music - position: 4
hands in the pockets of their well-worn coats. it was now quite - position: 4

mention:
unnecessary concern to your parents and you fail - and i mention - position: 11

types:
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages. - position: 9

dismissal:
of an hour, tearfully thanking gregor's mother for her dismissal as - position: 10

[ebook:
release date: august 16, 2005 [ebook #5200] - position: 6

present:
do because he was used to sleeping on his right, and in his present - position: 14
part of his body might well, at present, be the most sensitive. - position: 8
they had so much to worry about at present that they had lost sight - position: 9
was not familiar with how well he could move about in his present - position: 13
his present mood, it obviously did not occur to his father to open - position: 2
unpleasantness that he, in his present condition, was forced to - position: 6
mind in his present state, pressed upright against the door and - position: 4
present circumstances, they could not move out of it, there was no - position: 1

draught:
her face.  a strong draught of air flew in from the street towards - position: 5

subtleties:
his father, though, was not in the mood to notice subtleties like - position: 11

next:
because of that.  what should he do now? the next train went at - position: 10
only then would he consider what to do next, as he was well aware - position: 9
other.  whatever was said next would be crucial, so, in order to - position: 5
quiet in the next room.  perhaps his parents were sat at the table - position: 4
"listen", said the chief clerk in the next room, "he's turning the - position: 8
decisions, as early the next morning, almost before the night had - position: 5
to much of what was said in the next rooms, and whenever he heard - position: 9
secret plan to send her to the conservatory next year even though it - position: 9
slightest noise he caused would be heard next door and they would - position: 8
onto the cool, leather sofa next to it, as he became quite hot with - position: 6
came back first while grete in the next room had her arms round the - position: 8
too, ran into the next room as if he could advise his sister like in - position: 5
when he was in the dark again, they would sit in the next room and - position: 13
next time the door was opened; he had long forgotten about his boss - position: 1
find himself next to the food that had been prepared for him he - position: 3
they had had a neighbour like gregor in the next room without - position: 10
struggling for breath where she was, and ran into the next room - position: 11
nearly closed with exhaustion; his sister sat next to his father - position: 8

employer:
parents and of your employer, and really must request a clear and - position: 5
your employer did suggest a possible reason for your failure to - position: 2
our employer as well as having to look after my parents and my - position: 2

drag:
it, hit squarely and lodged in his back; gregor wanted to drag - position: 12

butcher's:
more that the samsa family lost interest in them; when a butcher's - position: 12

lying:
lying in bed.  he remembered that he had often felt a slight pain in - position: 1
bed, perhaps caused by lying awkwardly, but that had always turned - position: 5
in tears while gregor was still lying peacefully on his back.  and - position: 7
fond of hanging from the ceiling; it was quite different from lying - position: 12
before it was opened and then, lying in the darkness of his room - position: 7
'ave a look at this, it's dead, just lying there, stone dead!" - position: 9

expenses:
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal - position: 8
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees, - position: 7

sensitive:
part of his body might well, at present, be the most sensitive. - position: 12
"am i less sensitive than i used to be, then?", he thought, and was - position: 4

entrance:
the entrance hall, clapping his hands, "get a locksmith here, now!" - position: 2
respect for his uniform and bearing.  the door to the entrance hall - position: 11
only when he had reached the entrance hall that he made a sudden - position: 7
she would close the front door in the entrance hall and talk him out - position: 9

coughing:
coughing to listen, "it'll be the death of both of you, i can see it - position: 1

comfortable:
that gregor would know he could make things as comfortable for - position: 10
all, much more cosy and comfortable?"  "oh yes, we'd love to", - position: 6
was unnatural.  he also felt relatively comfortable.  it is true - position: 7

months:
life led by the family during these two months, must have made him - position: 9
something they had not done for months, and took the tram out to the - position: 7

honour:
entrusted to you - but i came near to giving him my word of honour - position: 14

till:
seventeen, her life up till then had been very enviable, consisting - position: 5

hours:
hours in the morning on company business? was it really not enough - position: 1
hours of rest have given me strength.  you don't need to wait, sir; - position: 1
stretch it out for several hours as he sat reading a number of - position: 6
wink but scratching at the leather for hours on end.  or he might go - position: 8
this sight, he spent four hours carrying the bedsheet over to the - position: 6
he got into the habit of closely watching it for one or two hours - position: 14
a few hours and then, more often than not, spit it out again.  at - position: 3
death, and he would remain immobile for hours afterwards. - position: 8

businesses:
friends from other businesses, one of the chambermaids from a - position: 4

half:
drawers.  "god in heaven!" he thought.  it was half past six and the - position: 9
hands were quietly moving forwards, it was even later than half - position: 11
when gregor was already sticking half way out of the bed - the new - position: 6
only half of his body could be seen, along with his head above it - position: 2
was immediately startled, although he had been half asleep, and he - position: 8
could hardly breathe in that narrow space.  half suffocating, he - position: 8
to each other at half volume, and they stayed by the window while - position: 5
become excited merely because she was and stood up half raising his - position: 10

sewing:
"you're doing so much sewing again today!", as if he did not know - position: 5
the large amount of sewing work she did.  gregor even learned, - position: 5

continually:
continually rubbed them together in gleeful anticipation of a loud - position: 1

c:
copyright (c) 2002 david wyllie. - position: 2
project gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any defect you cause. - position: 5

past:
drawers.  "god in heaven!" he thought.  it was half past six and the - position: 10
past, more like quarter to seven.  had the alarm clock not rung? he - position: 1
but then he said to himself: "before it strikes quarter past seven - position: 11
time was now ten past seven and he would have to make a final - position: 5
achieved in the past and consider that later on, once the difficulty - position: 4
him quickly forget his past when he had still been human.  he had - position: 5

surprising:
from the doctor and the locksmith he expected great and surprising - position: 11
himself away, as if he could remove the surprising, the incredible - position: 9

everyone's:
conversation - with everyone's permission, in a way, and thus quite - position: 3

climbing:
to all the effort of pushing a chair to the window, climbing up onto - position: 12

painful:
him, there was a painful and uncontrollable squeaking mixed in with - position: 5
a painful silence; in the room on his left his sister began to cry. - position: 2

makes:
time", he thought, "it makes you stupid.  you've got to get enough - position: 5
thinks about the business.  it nearly makes me cross the way he - position: 7
gutenberg-tm work.  the foundation makes no representations concerning - position: 5

infant:
infant school--he really could not wait any longer to see whether - position: 1

wall:
different newspapers.  on the wall exactly opposite there was - position: 5
suddenly caught by the picture on the wall - which was already - position: 8
looked around.  her eyes met those of gregor on the wall.  perhaps - position: 11
from the wall.  well, she could certainly try it! he sat unyielding - position: 3
might see it as especially provoking if he fled onto the wall or - position: 12

plan:
secret plan to send her to the conservatory next year even though it - position: 2
had first seen him.  his disappointment at the failure of his plan, - position: 12

bin:
she quickly dropped it all into a bin, closed it with its wooden - position: 8

5:
section 5.  general information about project gutenberg-tm electronic - position: 2

neck:
and kiss her neck, which, since she had been going out to work, she - position: 4
with her arms around his neck. - position: 6
not turn it all the way round as he felt his neck becoming stiff, - position: 12

head:
his armour-like back, and if he lifted his head a little he could - position: 9
towards the headboard so that he could lift his head better; found - position: 10
there was a cautious knock at the door near his head.  "gregor", - position: 11
first, carefully turning his head to the side.  this he managed - position: 5
his body eventually followed slowly in the direction of the head. - position: 11
but when he had at last got his head out of the bed and into the - position: 9
a miracle if his head were not injured, so he became afraid to carry - position: 5
of bed in this way and kept his head raised as he did so he could - position: 9
head carefully enough, though, and hit it as he fell; annoyed and in - position: 1
"so, i didn't need the locksmith after all". then he lay his head on - position: 13
spread themselves out around her as her head disappeared down onto - position: 8
only half of his body could be seen, along with his head above it - position: 12
held her head suggested she wanted to see gregor better, but the - position: 3
turned his head his father merely stamped his foot all the harder. - position: 3
lethal blow to his back or head from the stick in his father's hand - position: 7
he had just come.  he was pleased when he finally had his head in - position: 13
had been that morning, and immediately dipped his head into the - position: 9
milk, nearly covering his eyes with it.  but he soon drew his head - position: 13
he was no longer able to lift his head, but he nonetheless felt - position: 9
gregor had pushed his head forward, right to the edge of the couch, - position: 5
continue listening, when his head would fall wearily against the - position: 5
and got it into her head to make it as easy as possible for him by - position: 6
of the room than gregor poked his head out from under the couch to - position: 8
from all sides.  with his head and legs pulled in against him and - position: 6
certainly be taken away by no-one.  he turned his head to face the - position: 10
angry and glad at the same time.  gregor drew his head back from the - position: 11
ability to see anything - her hands behind his father's head begging - position: 10
slowly shaking his head for a quarter of an hour with his eyes - position: 4
around her head came every morning and evening to do the heaviest - position: 3
his head in the living room.  before, he had taken great pride in - position: 2
head close to the ground so that he could meet her eyes if the - position: 1
shaking his head, and then looked back at gregor.  his father seemed - position: 3
out for his usual evening nap but from the uncontrolled way his head - position: 13
required a great deal of effort and he was using his head to help - position: 12
he did not turn his head until he had reached the doorway.  he did - position: 6
window too.  then, without his willing it, his head sank down - position: 9
looking at the ground as if the contents of his head were - position: 11
boy, proud of posture with his tray on his head, passed them on his - position: 10

unimpeded:
crawl around unimpeded in any direction, but it would also have let - position: 3

stains:
would often spend the whole evening looking at all the stains on - position: 11

identify:
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread - position: 3

2012:
last updated: may 20, 2012 - position: 5

performing:
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative - position: 3
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or - position: 5
performing, copying or distributing any project gutenberg-tm works - position: 1

success:
money in quite different ways.  gregor converted his success at work - position: 9
strain and no success - he had put on a lot of weight and become - position: 4
success with that she tried to make a nuisance of herself and poked - position: 1

require:
license.  you must require such a user to return or - position: 4

e-mail:
you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he - position: 6

wake:
sometimes his father would wake up and say to gregor's mother - position: 5
father to wake him and try to persuade him to go to bed, as he - position: 3

pleasure:
under them; to his pleasure, they did exactly as he told them; they - position: 5
pleasure, he consumed the cheese, the vegetables and the sauce; the - position: 1
gregor learned, to his pleasure, that despite all their misfortunes - position: 5
behind the door, gregor nodded with enthusiasm in his pleasure at - position: 10
pleasure for gregor to cut himself off so completely.  she left the - position: 1
pleasure at all, and so, to entertain himself, he got into the habit - position: 1
able to stand up but, as a sign of his pleasure, would just raise - position: 11

contributions:
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  contributions to the project gutenberg - position: 2
while we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we - position: 8

hang:
bow hang limply for a while but continued to look at the music as if - position: 2

replacement:
money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the - position: 8
of replacement or refund" described in paragraph 1.f.3, the project - position: 2
1.f.3.  limited right of replacement or refund - if you discover a - position: 5
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a - position: 9
1.f.4.  except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth - position: 8

seat:
though, was offered a seat by one of the gentlemen and sat - leaving - position: 5
gregor's father staggered back to his seat, feeling his way with his - position: 7

reproach:
as a reproach to her, but he could have stayed there for weeks - position: 3

heaviest:
pushed it from its place, his sister always taking on the heaviest - position: 12
around her head came every morning and evening to do the heaviest - position: 12

beside:
"but sir", called gregor, beside himself and forgetting all else in - position: 5
use, and placed it beside them.  then, out of consideration for - position: 5
protrusions - then, right beside him, lightly tossed, something flew - position: 4
while his mother tried to draw his father, who was beside himself - position: 11
her own free will; she would sit beside him on the couch with her - position: 8

details:
** this is a copyrighted project gutenberg ebook, details below ** - position: 9

slightest:
slowly resolve themselves today.  he did not have the slightest - position: 10
suspicious at the slightest shortcoming? were all employees, every - position: 4
that yet.  gregor was still there and had not the slightest - position: 11
emphatically not to tell anyone the slightest about what had - position: 7
slightest noise he caused would be heard next door and they would - position: 1
dust that lay everywhere in his room and flew up at the slightest - position: 13

checks:
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card - position: 4

maintain:
to live off the interest; it was enough to maintain them for, - position: 10

opportunities:
opportunities to fix the problem. - position: 1

idea:
reads the paper or studies train timetables.  his idea of relaxation - position: 9
lock!"  and with the idea that they were all excitedly following his - position: 5
to get through.  he was merely fixed on the idea that gregor should - position: 10
idea, not without reason, that she was gregor's spokesman to his - position: 1
you've got to get rid of the idea that that's gregor.  we've only - position: 8

relatively:
father into a panic as well.  until then he had been relatively self - position: 12
his mother also wanted to go in and visit gregor relatively soon but - position: 11
was unnatural.  he also felt relatively comfortable.  it is true - position: 6

looked:
looked. - position: 1
and he looked over at the alarm clock, ticking on the chest of - position: 3
imagine what it looked like; it turned out to be too hard to move; - position: 4
dishevelled from bed despite the chief clerk's being there, looked - position: 10
her breast.  his father looked hostile, and clenched his fists as if - position: 5
wanting to knock gregor back into his room.  then he looked - position: 11
he looked back for the last time.  gregor made a run for him; he - position: 2
front room and looked anxiously in.  she did not see him straight - position: 4
and looked at it and the few drops of milk splashed around it with - position: 2
gratitude one time when he carefully looked out from under the sheet - position: 7
everything looked, what gregor had eaten, how he had behaved this - position: 2
sister came in and looked round to see that everything in the room - position: 5
folds into it so that everything really looked as if it had just - position: 8
already looked uneasy in his room, she soon stopped speaking and - position: 2
looked around.  her eyes met those of gregor on the wall.  perhaps - position: 1
eyebrows, his piercing, dark eyes looked out fresh and alert; his - position: 6
work; everything else was looked after by gregor's mother on top of - position: 5
out of his chair and the two parents looked on astonished and - position: 9
shaking his head, and then looked back at gregor.  his father seemed - position: 6
- here he looked briefly but decisively at the floor - "i give - position: 3
grounds for such an action."  he was silent and looked straight - position: 10
hands, and fell into it; it looked as if he was stretching himself - position: 7
occasionally looked down at gregor as he lay there immobile. - position: 2
floor.  he stopped and looked round.  they seemed to have realised - position: 5
looked at him in unhappy silence.  his mother lay in her chair with - position: 1
"what now, then?", gregor asked himself as he looked round in the - position: 9
the three gentlemen stepped out of their room and looked round in - position: 10
then", he said, and looked up at  mr. samsa as if he had been - position: 5
the cleaner still did not seem to want to leave that they looked up - position: 13

saved:
some receipt or document from the little cash box he had saved from - position: 12

daring:
gregor to himself; but without daring to raise his voice loud enough - position: 6

enormous:
earn an enormous wage as well as having a soft time of it.  that's - position: 3
if she had done her an enormous service.  she even swore - position: 7
one side, saw the enormous brown patch against the flowers of the - position: 5
at the enormous size of the soles of his boots, but wasted no time - position: 3
an enormous, thick-boned charwoman with white hair that flapped - position: 2

pieces:
sweetened milk with little pieces of white bread floating in it.  he - position: 5
happening, it was just a few pieces of furniture being moved after - position: 7

lethal:
lethal blow to his back or head from the stick in his father's hand - position: 1

suggested:
held her head suggested she wanted to see gregor better, but the - position: 4

failed:
front of her.  from then on she never failed to open the door - position: 9
all, often failed to make use of it when it was open and, without - position: 3

crate:
would have been quite easy to transport him in any suitable crate - position: 12

hope:
hard of hearing.  well, there's still some hope; once i've got the - position: 8
some nonsensical hope.  but then of course, the maid's firm steps - position: 3
explaining it,  mrs. samsa", said the chief clerk, "i hope it's - position: 10
we've given up all hope of improvement and we're abandoning him to - position: 5
are removed.  of course, we hope that you will support the project - position: 6

forgetting:
"but sir", called gregor, beside himself and forgetting all else in - position: 8
come very close to forgetting, and it had only been the voice of his - position: 5

usually:
thing, we don't usually even hear about them, or if at all it's when - position: 4
all of them were usually very quiet nowadays.  soon after dinner, - position: 5
there.  he, fortunately, would usually see no more than the object - position: 5

office:
the train he would not avoid his boss's anger as the office - position: 12
time ago.  the office assistant was the boss's man, spineless, and - position: 4
i'll be in the office soon after you, and please be so good as to - position: 5
going, in to the office? yes? will you report everything accurately, - position: 5
office.  i know that nobody likes the travellers.  they think we - position: 1
almost the whole year away from the office, so that we can very - position: 8
the foundation's principal office is located at 4557 melan dr. s. - position: 4
throughout numerous locations.  its business office is located at - position: 6

floating:
sweetened milk with little pieces of white bread floating in it.  he - position: 9

won:
and finally won over; the future of gregor and his family depended - position: 3

accuse:
company, accuse his parents of having a lazy son, and accept the - position: 2
anyone could accuse us of doing anything wrong." - position: 3

16:
release date: august 16, 2005 [ebook #5200] - position: 4

displayed:
gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed, - position: 6

warmth:
morning the fresh air had something of warmth mixed in with it.  it - position: 8

urged:
respect he owed to his tenants.  he urged them and pressed them - position: 8

unless:
and never to have to open the door unless it was especially - position: 9
unless gregor made his way through the junk and moved it somewhere - position: 1
charge for the ebooks, unless you receive specific permission.  if you - position: 5
1.e.  unless you have removed all references to project gutenberg: - position: 2
unless you comply with paragraph 1.e.8 or 1.e.9. - position: 1
unless a copyright notice is included.  thus, we do not necessarily - position: 1

speaking:
a way that is quite unheard of.  i'm speaking here on behalf of your - position: 9
while gregor was speaking, but moved steadily towards the door - position: 4
anyone speaking he would scurry straight to the appropriate door and - position: 2
already looked uneasy in his room, she soon stopped speaking and - position: 10
speaking only to her father, as her mother was too occupied with - position: 1

ridiculously:
ridiculously, was holding on to the banister with both hands; but - position: 1

join:
so why did his sister not go and join the others? she had probably - position: 9

reduced:
their business misfortune had reduced the family to a state of total - position: 5
probably permanently.  he had been reduced to the condition of an - position: 6

soft:
earn an enormous wage as well as having a soft time of it.  that's - position: 10

concerned:
parents about the things that concerned him.  this meant that his - position: 6

ebook:
the project gutenberg ebook of metamorphosis, by franz kafka - position: 4
this ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with - position: 2
with this ebook or online at www.gutenberg.net - position: 3
** this is a copyrighted project gutenberg ebook, details below ** - position: 8
*** start of this project gutenberg ebook metamorphosis *** - position: 7
end of the project gutenberg ebook of metamorphosis, by franz kafka - position: 6
*** end of this project gutenberg ebook metamorphosis *** - position: 7
do not charge anything for copies of this ebook, complying with the - position: 9
rules is very easy.  you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose - position: 9
this ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with - position: 2
with this ebook or online at www.gutenberg.net - position: 3

member:
sad and revolting form, was a family member who could not be treated - position: 8

1:
section 1.  general terms of use and redistributing project gutenberg-tm - position: 2

medicine:
gregor's face, some kind of caustic medicine splashed all over him; - position: 7

walking:
way forward a little more slowly than them, who were already walking - position: 12

complaints:
easily fall victim to gossip and chance and groundless complaints, - position: 10

using:
himself upright against it using the adhesive on the tips of his - position: 5
was, of course, made up for with a very strong jaw; using the jaw, - position: 12
some surprise.  she immediately picked it up - using a rag, - position: 8
had accumulated.  besides that, they had not been using up all the - position: 9
required a great deal of effort and he was using his head to help - position: 10
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work - position: 6
1.a.  by reading or using any part of this project gutenberg-tm - position: 5
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy - position: 9
the use of project gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method - position: 8

stretch:
one that would stretch itself out; and if he finally managed to do - position: 4
stretch it out for several hours as he sat reading a number of - position: 1
first to get up and stretch out her young body. - position: 6

boss's:
the train he would not avoid his boss's anger as the office - position: 8
time ago.  the office assistant was the boss's man, spineless, and - position: 8

advise:
too, ran into the next room as if he could advise his sister like in - position: 11

movements:
each step his father took he had to carry out countless movements. - position: 12
one on each side, to the movements of her hands.  drawn in by the - position: 7
movements. - position: 1

wife:
uniform with his wife on one arm and his daughter on the other.  all - position: 4
from either his wife or his daughter as the charwoman seemed to have - position: 4

ein:
revenue service.  the foundation's ein or federal tax identification - position: 5

dark:
it was not until it was getting dark that evening that gregor awoke - position: 8
dark.  he pushed himself over to the door, feeling his way clumsily - position: 1
eyebrows, his piercing, dark eyes looked out fresh and alert; his - position: 4
when he was in the dark again, they would sit in the next room and - position: 6

dismissed:
household budget became even smaller; so now the maid was dismissed; - position: 11

hold:
gregor", they should have cried, "keep at it, keep hold of the - position: 10
something to hold onto, landed on his numerous little legs.  hardly - position: 3
now, without delaying any longer, grete took hold of all the bottles - position: 8
that, he took hold of the door handle and slammed the door. - position: 4
and tears that had taken hold of her, displacing her earlier - position: 6
movement as if she wanted to hold back the broom, but did not - position: 7
1.f.6.  indemnity - you agree to indemnify and hold the foundation, the - position: 8

regulating:
the foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating - position: 10

controlled:
controlled, but now, instead of running after the chief clerk - position: 1

enough:
time", he thought, "it makes you stupid.  you've got to get enough - position: 12
and the maid in mind - would have been more than enough; they would - position: 11
hours in the morning on company business? was it really not enough - position: 12
head carefully enough, though, and hit it as he fell; annoyed and in - position: 3
gregor to himself; but without daring to raise his voice loud enough - position: 12
sure he'll be good enough to forgive the untidiness of your room." - position: 5
understand his words any more, although they seemed clear enough to - position: 10
the other of the double doors so that gregor would have enough space - position: 12
enough sleep and felt fully rested.  but he had the impression that - position: 1
indeed suffering enough. - position: 3
to eat, and receive no more answer than "no thanks, i've had enough" - position: 13
this money, however, was certainly not enough to enable the family - position: 7
to live off the interest; it was enough to maintain them for, - position: 8
was take it off again, as it was clear enough that it was no - position: 10
little.  it was enough to attract his mother's attention.  she stood - position: 4
not said enough and that his father took it to mean that something - position: 3
companions around him.  he was standing up straight enough now; - position: 9
enough to remind even his father that gregor, despite his current - position: 1
had enough of the whole performance and it was only now out of - position: 2
but it was nonetheless enough to see that nothing behind him had - position: 5

letter:
number is 64-6221541.  its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at - position: 6

continuously:
instead of them he only had all those little legs continuously - position: 11

labouring:
labouring at it for fifteen minutes or more his mother said it would - position: 1

sideways:
the broom, sending it sideways across the floor.  mrs. samsa made a - position: 5

sent:
of these things.  maybe you haven't read the latest contracts i sent - position: 12
released him from where he was held and sent him flying, and heavily - position: 9
it was sufficiently cooked or whether it should be sent back to the - position: 10
sent to the project gutenberg literary archive foundation at the - position: 1

coming:
most horrible.  in itself, his sister's not coming into the room - position: 8
windowpanes, perhaps indicating that spring was coming, she began to - position: 7
"aren't you coming any closer, then?", she asked when gregor turned - position: 3
coming.  we can't all work as hard as we have to and then come home - position: 1
sprung forward lightly, gregor had not heard her coming at all, and - position: 9

put:
would have put in his report about gregor's not being there a long - position: 3
put into extreme danger.  that was something his parents did not - position: 1
flight of the chief clerk seemed, unfortunately, to put gregor's - position: 9
was put out, and now it was easy to see that his parents and sister had - position: 2
strain and no success - he had put on a lot of weight and become - position: 7
hurriedly pulled the sheet down lower over the couch and put more - position: 11
soon; grete had put her arm around her mother and was nearly - position: 4
put his hands in his trouser pockets, pushing back the bottom of his - position: 1
round again, and she calmly put the chair back in the corner. - position: 6
rented the room came in in the evening and the light was put on. - position: 13
the violin playing; at first, the three gentlemen had put their - position: 10
pillows and covers on the beds flew up and were put into order and - position: 11
gregor's sister rushed to his mother and put her hand on her - position: 8
irritably.  she just put her finger on her lips and made a quick and - position: 4

paragraph:
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.e.8. - position: 12
paragraph 1.c below.  there are a lot of things you can do with project - position: 1
works.  see paragraph 1.e below. - position: 3
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.e.1 with - position: 8
license as specified in paragraph 1.e.1. - position: 5
unless you comply with paragraph 1.e.8 or 1.e.9. - position: 5
has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the - position: 8
- you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.f.3, a full refund of any - position: 6
of replacement or refund" described in paragraph 1.f.3, the project - position: 7
provided in paragraph f3.  you agree that the foundation, the - position: 3
in paragraph 1.f.3, this work is provided to you 'as-is,' with no other - position: 2

domain:
creating the works from public domain print editions means that no - position: 6
practically anything with public domain ebooks.  redistribution is - position: 5
collection are in the public domain in the united states.  if an - position: 6
individual work is in the public domain in the united states and you are - position: 7
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is - position: 4
public domain works in creating the project gutenberg-tm - position: 2
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be - position: 6
editions, all of which are confirmed as public domain in the u.s. - position: 9

collapsed:
his business when it had collapsed five years earlier.  gregor heard - position: 6
that his little legs collapsed under him.  it was his sister who had - position: 5

user:
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a - position: 12
- you provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies - position: 12
license.  you must require such a user to return or - position: 7

calculate:
you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  the fee is - position: 5

tender:
back again in disappointment; not only did the pain in his tender - position: 12
provincial hotel, a tender memory that appeared and disappeared - position: 4

complying:
do not charge anything for copies of this ebook, complying with the - position: 10
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  see - position: 3
the foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating - position: 6

agitated:
helpless; then they, too, became agitated; gregor's father, standing - position: 6

cheese:
few raisins and almonds; some cheese that gregor had declared - position: 6
already sucking greedily at the cheese which had immediately, almost - position: 6
pleasure, he consumed the cheese, the vegetables and the sauce; the - position: 5

danced:
they danced around.  for a moment everything remained quiet. - position: 2

someone:
"that'll be someone from work", he said to himself, and froze very - position: 3
then? it's quite possible for someone to be temporarily unable to - position: 6
on the other side did the same; it seemed that someone needed to - position: 11
entering the room of someone seriously ill or even of a stranger. - position: 5
quiet, maybe that was a good sign.  then there was someone at the - position: 11
stood pressed against each other.  someone must have heard them in - position: 6

needle:
on by himself while gregor's mother would throw down her needle and - position: 11

trainee:
as a business trainee, at high school, even while he had been at - position: 4

checking:
it even without checking.  "that's what i said",  replied the - position: 4

construed:
construed as friendly.  "he's enjoyed his dinner today", she might - position: 1

wishing:
while it was still in its dish, clearly wishing to establish whether - position: 9

women's:
the two women's intentions were good.  he had nearly forgotten they - position: 3

pained:
with a pained smile, and grete followed her parents into the bedroom - position: 3

express:
she approached the room, gregor could hear his mother express her - position: 10
warranties of any kind, express or implied, including but not limited to - position: 5

lazy:
company, accuse his parents of having a lazy son, and accept the - position: 8

demands:
same demands as before? there was no need to worry about things like - position: 2

hour:
of an hour, tearfully thanking gregor's mother for her dismissal as - position: 3
slowly shaking his head for a quarter of an hour with his eyes - position: 10

order:
peace and order to this chaos.  he told himself once more that it - position: 3
other.  whatever was said next would be crucial, so, in order to - position: 11
- in order to see what had been happening there.  the whole of his - position: 2
sister, in her goodness, actually did bring.  in order to test his - position: 9
protruded from under the couch.  one day, in order to spare her even - position: 9
wanted to show gregor that you need teeth in order to eat and it was - position: 10
pillows and covers on the beds flew up and were put into order and - position: 13

way:
on pushing himself forward the same way.  and he could not knock - position: 7
before, if that was possible, he could think of no way of bringing - position: 11
thing to do would be to get free of it in whatever way he could at - position: 13
of bed in this way and kept his head raised as he did so he could - position: 5
when gregor was already sticking half way out of the bed - the new - position: 7
thinks about the business.  it nearly makes me cross the way he - position: 11
word of the conversation.  "well i can't think of any other way of - position: 12
this just by the way - you fail to carry out your business duties in - position: 5
a way that is quite unheard of.  i'm speaking here on behalf of your - position: 2
saying, he made his way over to the chest of drawers - this was - position: 5
away.  gregor is ill.  quick, get the doctor.  did you hear the way - position: 13
different from the way that a human coughs and he was no longer sure - position: 4
gregor slowly pushed his way over to the door with the chair.  once - position: 5
because he had to open the door in this way, it was already wide - position: 10
the other door which was still held bolted in place.  in this way - position: 13
see onto the landing and the stairs where they began their way down - position: 12
work my way out of it again.  please don't make things any harder - position: 3
fingers spread shouting: "help, for pity's sake, help!"  the way she - position: 10
unthinking way she was hurrying backwards showed that she did not; - position: 2
distance as to which way to turn.  if only his father would stop - position: 5
hissing, he made a mistake and turned himself back a little the way - position: 13
had been nothing in the way; it sounded to gregor as if there was - position: 6
dark.  he pushed himself over to the door, feeling his way clumsily - position: 11
visitor into the room in some way or at least to find out who it - position: 7
dragged the things he did want to eat a little way away from them - position: 11
especially at first, that was not about him in some way, even if - position: 11
other way.  during gregor's short periods in town, conversation with - position: 2
much closer, but now it was certainly better the way his father had - position: 10
than experienced,  as what he actually saw in this way was becoming - position: 10
noticed gregor's new way of entertaining himself - he had, after - position: 4
removing the furniture that got in his way, especially the chest of - position: 8
home and leaving it in the middle of the room it would be in his way - position: 16
heart; and why wouldn't gregor feel the same way about it, he'd been - position: 9
way it was before so that when gregor comes back to us again he'll - position: 1
confused - he could think of no other way of explaining to himself - position: 8
enthusiastic about things and feel they must get their way whenever - position: 10
his father the way he stood there now; of late, with his new habit - position: 4
going on the rest of the flat the way he had done before.  he really - position: 9
way forward a little more slowly than them, who were already walking - position: 1
slightly.  in this way they went round the room several times - position: 4
think of any other way of saving himself than running; he almost - position: 5
conversation - with everyone's permission, in a way, and thus quite - position: 7
imaginable way of transferring gregor to the new address.  he could - position: 2
at the same time she became touchy in a way that was quite new for - position: 10
responded to being spoken to in that way, but just remained where he - position: 8
speak to him in that way once again.  gregor was so resentful of it - position: 6
their way into gregor's room.  the dustbins from the kitchen found - position: 2
their way in there too.  the charwoman was always in a hurry, and - position: 2
unless gregor made his way through the junk and moved it somewhere - position: 5
enjoy it although moving about in that way left him sad and tired to - position: 8
the way in a corner. - position: 2
especially unnerving, the way they all blew the smoke from their - position: 4
seemed to him that he was being shown the way to the unknown - position: 10
way forward to his sister and tug at her skirt to show her she might - position: 1
this misfortune hadn't got in the way, and refuse to let anyone - position: 7
gregor's father staggered back to his seat, feeling his way with his - position: 10
out for his usual evening nap but from the uncontrolled way his head - position: 11
"it's got to go", shouted his sister, "that's the only way, father. - position: 11
not turn it all the way round as he felt his neck becoming stiff, - position: 6
how they went into gregor's room.  on the way they opened the door - position: 9
way up and came nearer than they were,  mr. samsa and the women came - position: 1
they decided the best way to make use of that day was for relaxation - position: 5
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "project - position: 8
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who - position: 7

credit:
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card - position: 8

eating:
there eating their breakfasts.  i ought to just try that with my - position: 2
eating and lay lethargic in the same place, his sister slowly turned - position: 1
as eating so much food had rounded out his body a little and he - position: 2
gregor had almost entirely stopped eating.  only if he happened to - position: 6
stopped him eating, but he had soon got used to the changes made - position: 3
eating it, and the gentleman in the middle, who seemed to count as - position: 1
eating their chewing teeth could still be heard, as if they had - position: 1
gregor anxiously, "but not anything like they're eating.  they do - position: 8

peace:
the first thing he wanted to do was to get up in peace without being - position: 13
peace and order to this chaos.  he told himself once more that it - position: 1
to leave him now in peace instead of disturbing him with talking at - position: 6
this peace and wealth and comfort should come to a horrible and - position: 2
peace i get in my old age!"  and supported by the two women he would - position: 1
politeness that they allowed their peace to be disturbed.  it was - position: 6
arrived and from then on it was impossible to sleep in peace - she - position: 12
destroyed the peace they had only just gained.  they got up and went - position: 3

principal:
to her contractor and grete to her principal.  the cleaner came in - position: 8
the foundation's principal office is located at 4557 melan dr. s. - position: 3

violence:
bad had happened, that he was responsible for some act of violence. - position: 12

display:
1.e.5.  do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this - position: 5

locking:
from his travelling, of locking all doors at night even when he was - position: 5

kicked:
boss; i'd get kicked out on the spot.  but who knows, maybe that - position: 4

gregor's:
would have put in his report about gregor's not being there a long - position: 8
now."  the change in gregor's voice probably could not be noticed - position: 5
and gregor's back was also more elastic than he had thought, which - position: 2
from the room on his right, gregor's sister whispered to him to let - position: 7
if they were shocked then it would no longer be gregor's - position: 11
across gregor's room.  "you'll have to go for the doctor straight - position: 2
of the lock as it snapped back was gregor's sign that he could break - position: 9
a steady and invisible force.  gregor's mother, her hair still - position: 6
table; there was so much of it because, for gregor's father, - position: 10
flight of the chief clerk seemed, unfortunately, to put gregor's - position: 10
gregor's father seized the chief clerk's stick in his right hand - position: 1
foot at him as he went.  gregor's appeals to his father were of no - position: 7
across the room, despite the chilly weather, gregor's mother had - position: 8
stop gregor's father as he drove him back, making hissing noises at - position: 2
gregor's mother, and sometimes to his sister, but there was now not - position: 1
a sound to be heard.  gregor's sister would often write and tell him - position: 6
come into gregor's room any more until morning; that gave him plenty - position: 3
the dish, which had probably been permanently set aside for gregor's - position: 11
gregor's feelings, as she knew that he would not eat in front of - position: 1
himself as he liked.  gregor's little legs whirred, at last he could - position: 5
parents would sleep for a little while then as well, and gregor's - position: 12
sister would send the maid away on some errand.  gregor's father and - position: 10
gregor's mother to let her go without delay.  it was not very clear - position: 1
of an hour, tearfully thanking gregor's mother for her dismissal as - position: 6
now gregor's sister also had to help his mother with the cooking; - position: 2
explained to gregor's mother and sister what their finances and - position: 3
despair, and gregor's only concern at that time had been to arrange - position: 3
other way.  during gregor's short periods in town, conversation with - position: 4
these matters himself and partly because gregor's mother did not - position: 7
very slow and clumsy.  would gregor's elderly mother now have to go - position: 6
gregor's room, then she would go straight to the window and pull it - position: 1
one day, about a month after gregor's transformation when his sister - position: 7
for the first fourteen days, gregor's parents could not bring - position: 6
gregor's room while his sister tidied up in there, and as soon as - position: 1
gregor's wish to see his mother was soon realised.  out of - position: 1
noticed gregor's new way of entertaining himself - he had, after - position: 2
gregor's father was not there and fetch his mother to help her.  as - position: 1
heavy for them to get the job finished before gregor's father got - position: 10
idea, not without reason, that she was gregor's spokesman to his - position: 8
they can.  perhaps this was what tempted grete to make gregor's - position: 11
so she refused to let her mother dissuade her.  gregor's mother - position: 10
helped gregor's sister to get the chest of drawers out with what - position: 2
gregor's face, some kind of caustic medicine splashed all over him; - position: 1
thrown without much force glanced against gregor's back and slid off - position: 7
him to spare gregor's life. - position: 4
no-one dared to remove the apple lodged in gregor's flesh, so it - position: 9
sometimes his father would wake up and say to gregor's mother - position: 10
with a kind of stubbornness, gregor's father refused to take his - position: 6
gregor's father would slumber where he was, fully dressed, as if - position: 1
efforts of gregor's mother and sister to look after it.  gregor - position: 3
as soon as it struck ten, gregor's mother would speak gently to his - position: 7
closed and refusing to get up.  gregor's mother would tug at his - position: 7
sleeve, whisper endearments into his ear, gregor's sister would - position: 7
on by himself while gregor's mother would throw down her needle and - position: 5
work; everything else was looked after by gregor's mother on top of - position: 8
from poor people, gregor's father brought bank employees their - position: 4
do any more.  and the injury in gregor's back began to hurt as much - position: 8
to bed gregor's mother and sister would now leave their work where - position: 3
point to gregor's room and say "close that door, grete", and then, - position: 3
even if he was not hungry.  gregor's sister no longer thought about - position: 7
gregor's room was for her and her alone.  gregor's mother did once - position: 1
gregor's room was for her and her alone.  gregor's mother did once - position: 9
in gregor's room and, highly aggrieved, ran back into the living - position: 2
helpless; then they, too, became agitated; gregor's father, standing - position: 7
of gregor's room to his sister; from her left, gregor's sister - position: 2
of gregor's room to his sister; from her left, gregor's sister - position: 10
screamed at her that she was never to clean gregor's room again; - position: 10
gregor's sister was exhausted from going out to work, and looking - position: 1
day, rather than any real curiosity, she opened the door to gregor's - position: 12
the chair in her hand had been slammed down into gregor's back. - position: 11
their way into gregor's room.  the dustbins from the kitchen found - position: 4
up their knives and forks.  gregor's mother immediately appeared in - position: 6
kitchen.  it was to his satisfaction, and gregor's mother and - position: 8
the family themselves ate in the kitchen.  nonetheless, gregor's - position: 9
the kitchen, as gregor's father called out: "is the playing perhaps - position: 4
called back gregor's father as if he had been the violin player - position: 3
gregor's father soon appeared with the music stand, his mother with - position: 1
disturbed gregor's sister, but soon, in contrast with the family, - position: 2
gregor's father observed them anxiously.  it really now seemed very - position: 1
cigarettes upwards from their mouth and noses.  yet gregor's sister - position: 9
"mr. samsa!", shouted the middle gentleman to gregor's father, - position: 8
knowing it.  they asked gregor's father for explanations, raised - position: 5
back towards their room only very slowly.  meanwhile gregor's sister - position: 9
before the three gentlemen had reached the room.  gregor's father - position: 9
thereby brought gregor's father to a halt.  "i declare here and - position: 3
now", he said, raising his hand and glancing at gregor's mother and - position: 10
gregor's father staggered back to his seat, feeling his way with his - position: 1
"she's absolutely right", said gregor's father to himself.  his - position: 5
gregor's sister rushed to his mother and put her hand on her - position: 1
forehead.  her words seemed to give gregor's father some more - position: 7
"we have to try and get rid of it", said gregor's sister, now - position: 11
"if he could just understand us", repeated gregor's father, closing - position: 8
which was totally beyond gregor's comprehension, his sister even - position: 5
hands in front of gregor's sister as if to protect her. - position: 5
how they went into gregor's room.  on the way they opened the door - position: 5
cleaner, and to prove it she gave gregor's body another shove with - position: 8
the food came out again just the same as when it went in". gregor's - position: 14
silent sign to the men that they might like to come into gregor's - position: 13
room.  they did so, and stood around gregor's corpse with their - position: 8

swept:
broom and swept up the left-overs, mixing them in with the food he - position: 3

completely:
feel completely well and even felt much hungrier than usual. - position: 2
the handle of the door to open it completely. - position: 9
completely forgotten the chief clerk for the moment, but could not - position: 1
eat.  what's more, his injuries must already have completely healed - position: 9
couch on his back and arranged it so that he was completely covered - position: 12
pleasure for gregor to cut himself off so completely.  she left the - position: 9
that his mother had now fallen completely asleep. - position: 7
completely, and his last breath flowed weakly from his nostrils. - position: 1
body was indeed completely dried up and flat, they had not seen it - position: 4

finally:
one that would stretch itself out; and if he finally managed to do - position: 10
it went so slowly; and finally, almost in a frenzy, when he - position: 6
slid down again, but he finally gave himself one last swing and - position: 6
and finally won over; the future of gregor and his family depended - position: 2
he was soon believing that all his sorrows would soon be finally at - position: 12
he had just come.  he was pleased when he finally had his head in - position: 10
stick, then, finally, all was quiet. - position: 3
he crawled over everything, walls, furniture, ceiling, and finally - position: 9
more, everything was left up to him.  as soon as he had finally - position: 13
getting weaker and weaker and would finally disappear altogether. - position: 7

remove:
both sides: "i'm ready, now", making an effort to remove all the - position: 10
now they threatened to remove the writing desk with its place - position: 5
himself away, as if he could remove the surprising, the incredible - position: 7
no-one dared to remove the apple lodged in gregor's flesh, so it - position: 4
1.e.4.  do not unlink or detach or remove the full project gutenberg-tm - position: 8

expressive:
very fond of music and a gifted and expressive violinist, it was his - position: 9

disappointed:
entertaining violin playing but had been disappointed, that they had - position: 7

labour:
his overcoat between gregor and his mother, would always labour his - position: 10

holes:
with a few air holes in it; the main thing holding the family back - position: 5

purpose:
special.  she thought he was laying there so still on purpose, - position: 11
rules is very easy.  you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose - position: 13
warranties of merchantibility or fitness for any purpose. - position: 8

sides:
both sides: "i'm ready, now", making an effort to remove all the - position: 2
for me than they are already, and don't take sides against me at the - position: 10
during the day, no-one came, and the keys were in the other sides. - position: 13
from all sides.  with his head and legs pulled in against him and - position: 3
his back and sides; he was much too indifferent to everything now to - position: 4

exaggerated:
rented a room out before and therefore showed an exaggerated - position: 10

curious:
curious to learn what they would say when they caught sight of him. - position: 1
curious as to what she would bring in its place, imagining the - position: 1

smart:
dressed in a smart blue uniform with gold buttons, the sort worn by - position: 4

probably:
true, he had not slept peacefully, but probably all the more deeply - position: 8
now."  the change in gregor's voice probably could not be noticed - position: 7
probably avoid injuring it.  his back seemed to be quite hard, and - position: 1
probably nothing would happen to it falling onto the carpet.  his - position: 1
even through all the doors would probably raise concern if not - position: 7
so why did his sister not go and join the others? she had probably - position: 14
easily done, probably because of the practise he had already had in - position: 3
state, or that his speech still might not - or probably would not - - position: 10
the dish, which had probably been permanently set aside for gregor's - position: 5
unbearable and would continue to do so, she probably even had to - position: 9
even more for him.  grete would probably be the only one who would - position: 7
scalp.  he took his cap, with its gold monogram from, probably, some - position: 11
gregor.  he probably did not even know himself what he had in mind, - position: 3
probably permanently.  he had been reduced to the condition of an - position: 1
probably considered friendly, such as "come on then, you old - position: 1

sister:
gregor!"  at the other side door his sister came plaintively: - position: 8
his breakfast, but his sister whispered: "gregor, open the door, i - position: 5
from the room on his right, gregor's sister whispered to him to let - position: 8
for his sister to hear him. - position: 3
a painful silence; in the room on his left his sister began to cry. - position: 11
so why did his sister not go and join the others? she had probably - position: 5
"mother?" his sister called from the other side.  they communicated - position: 3
went.  how had his sister managed to get dressed so quickly? there - position: 5
sister, so that i'm trapped in a difficult situation, but i will - position: 1
on it! if only his sister were here! she was clever; she was already - position: 6
of his shocked state.  but his sister was not there, gregor would - position: 7
favourite drink, and his sister had certainly left it there for him - position: 5
gregor's mother, and sometimes to his sister, but there was now not - position: 7
a sound to be heard.  gregor's sister would often write and tell him - position: 7
such a nice home for his sister and parents.  but what now, if all - position: 7
was put out, and now it was easy to see that his parents and sister had - position: 15
ended, his sister, nearly fully dressed, opened the door from the - position: 3
good to eat.  however, his sister noticed the full dish immediately - position: 6
sister, in her goodness, actually did bring.  in order to test his - position: 1
eating and lay lethargic in the same place, his sister slowly turned - position: 10
stay there even for the short time that his sister was in the room, - position: 10
watched with bulging eyes as his sister unselfconsciously took a - position: 7
sister would send the maid away on some errand.  gregor's father and - position: 1
sister wanted to spare them what distress she could as they were - position: 1
flat.  as nobody could understand him, nobody, not even his sister, - position: 11
now gregor's sister also had to help his mother with the cooking; - position: 3
or something similar.  no-one drank very much either.  his sister - position: 10
explained to gregor's mother and sister what their finances and - position: 6
gregor only remained close to his sister now.  unlike him, she was - position: 7
his sister would often turn to the conservatory but it was only ever - position: 2
sister have to go and earn money? she was still a child of - position: 1
grey earth mingled inseparably.  his observant sister only needed to - position: 7
if gregor had only been able to speak to his sister and thank her - position: 11
to bear it; but as it was it caused him pain.  his sister, - position: 13
one day, about a month after gregor's transformation when his sister - position: 11
before his sister came back and she seemed much more uneasy than - position: 3
and his sister would not be able to see him even if she bent down. - position: 3
to see how his sister liked the new arrangement. - position: 5
them say how they appreciated all the new work his sister was doing - position: 11
gregor's room while his sister tidied up in there, and as soon as - position: 5
his father and sister at first persuaded her against it.  gregor - position: 4
everything much better than his sister who, for all her courage, was - position: 6
great as that, caused himself no damage.  very soon his sister - position: 11
important; so his sister had no choice but to choose some time when - position: 4
sister came in and looked round to see that everything in the room - position: 1
come in, he can't be seen", said his sister, obviously leading her - position: 9
pushed it from its place, his sister always taking on the heaviest - position: 7
his sister, unfortunately, did not agree; she had become used to the - position: 2
helped gregor's sister to get the chest of drawers out with what - position: 3
"gregor!" shouted his sister, glowering at him and shaking her fist. - position: 4
too, ran into the next room as if he could advise his sister like in - position: 13
door if he did not want to chase his sister away, and she had to - position: 10
he saw was the door of his room being pulled open, his sister was - position: 13
sister had taken off some of her clothes after she had fainted to - position: 1
his father would go to sleep in his chair; his mother and sister - position: 13
lamp, would sew fancy underwear for a fashion shop; his sister, who - position: 11
while mother and sister would exchange a tired grin. - position: 4
efforts of gregor's mother and sister to look after it.  gregor - position: 6
chair for his bed.  then, however much mother and sister would - position: 10
sleeve, whisper endearments into his ear, gregor's sister would - position: 8
his sister her pen so that they could run after his father and - position: 2
had been sold, even though both mother and sister had been very fond - position: 9
strangers, his sister ran back and forth behind her desk at the - position: 3
to bed gregor's mother and sister would now leave their work where - position: 6
even if he was not hungry.  gregor's sister no longer thought about - position: 8
went into one of the worst of these places when his sister arrived - position: 12
without his sister doing anything about it; she could see the dirt - position: 3
his sister arrived home in the evening than she noticed the change - position: 2
of gregor's room to his sister; from her left, gregor's sister - position: 6
of gregor's room to his sister; from her left, gregor's sister - position: 11
with anger, into the bedroom; his sister, quaking with tears, - position: 7
gregor's sister was exhausted from going out to work, and looking - position: 2
the doorway with a dish of meat and soon behind her came his sister - position: 14
sister, who had been looking on anxiously, began to breathe again - position: 1
the music and his sister with the violin.  she calmly prepared - position: 5
his sister began to play; father and mother paid close attention, - position: 2
disturbed gregor's sister, but soon, in contrast with the family, - position: 3
cigarettes upwards from their mouth and noses.  yet gregor's sister - position: 10
way forward to his sister and tug at her skirt to show her she might - position: 5
sister should not be forced to stay with him, though, but stay of - position: 1
dissuade him from it.  on hearing all this, his sister would break - position: 10
back towards their room only very slowly.  meanwhile gregor's sister - position: 10
sister to gain their attention too, "that with regard to the - position: 1
"father, mother", said his sister, hitting the table with her hand - position: 5
gregor's sister rushed to his mother and put her hand on her - position: 2
"we have to try and get rid of it", said gregor's sister, now - position: 12
his sister just shrugged her shoulders as a sign of the helplessness - position: 2
question; his sister shook her hand vigorously through her tears as - position: 3
"it's got to go", shouted his sister, "that's the only way, father. - position: 7
which was totally beyond gregor's comprehension, his sister even - position: 8
hands in front of gregor's sister as if to protect her. - position: 6
his sister.  all he had done was begin to turn round so that he - position: 2
nearly closed with exhaustion; his sister sat next to his father - position: 6
changed, only his sister had stood up.  with his last glance he saw - position: 4
that his little legs collapsed under him.  it was his sister who had - position: 11
sister.  he remained in this state of empty and peaceful rumination - position: 1

incapable:
choice as he saw, to his disgust, that he was quite incapable of - position: 12

kiss:
and kiss her neck, which, since she had been going out to work, she - position: 2

determination:
long uniform coat, and, with look of determination, walked towards - position: 8

leg:
what he wanted with that leg, all the others seemed to be set free - position: 6

prejudice:
just prejudice but they have no particular reason to think better of - position: 2

trip:
we arrive back home exhausted from a trip, and that's when we feel - position: 8

granted:
state of mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the internal - position: 5

looking:
"mother, mother", said gregor gently, looking up at her.  he had - position: 6
looking out the window at a barren waste where the grey sky and the - position: 1
was looking into various bottles, he startled her when she turned - position: 2
would often spend the whole evening looking at all the stains on - position: 7
gregor's sister was exhausted from going out to work, and looking - position: 11
sister, who had been looking on anxiously, began to breathe again - position: 5
"dead?", asked  mrs. samsa, looking at the charwoman enquiringly, - position: 5
but not without looking back at the body.  the cleaner shut the door - position: 4
looking at the ground as if the contents of his head were - position: 1
without looking up from what they were writing, and it was only when - position: 2

synonymous:
project gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of - position: 4

1500:
809 north 1500 west, salt lake city, ut 84116, (801) 596-1887, email - position: 3

attract:
little.  it was enough to attract his mother's attention.  she stood - position: 6

annoyed:
head carefully enough, though, and hit it as he fell; annoyed and in - position: 11
useless and frequently been annoyed with her.  but now the two of - position: 5
become a little annoyed, and it was not clear whether it was his - position: 4
father's behaviour that annoyed them or the dawning realisation that - position: 4

files:
this and all associated files of various formats will be found in: - position: 5
license terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this - position: 8

age:
was of no use to him at all.  girls of that age, though, do become - position: 12
peace i get in my old age!"  and supported by the two women he would - position: 7

excited:
become excited merely because she was and stood up half raising his - position: 2

5200.zip:
***** this file should be named 5200.txt or 5200.zip ***** - position: 9

something:
this nonsense", he thought, but that was something he was unable to - position: 8
and would move about painfully.  "this is something that can't be - position: 8
alarm.  but it was something that had to be risked. - position: 5
on the left.  gregor tried to imagine whether something of the sort - position: 9
found for it later on, it was not something for which gregor could - position: 9
open;  people often do in homes where something awful has happened. - position: 8
sound.  they had realised, though, that there was something wrong - position: 9
something to show that you grant that i'm at least partly right!" - position: 1
put into extreme danger.  that was something his parents did not - position: 7
something to hold onto, landed on his numerous little legs.  hardly - position: 1
expected something, as he leapt down several steps at once and - position: 2
something to eat.  by the door there was a dish filled with - position: 1
frightening end? that was something that gregor did not want to - position: 5
couch, throw himself at his sister's feet and beg her for something - position: 12
or something similar.  no-one drank very much either.  his sister - position: 2
doing this, but doing it now was obviously something more remembered - position: 9
drawers and the desk.  now, this was not something that she would be - position: 9
strength she had.  the chest of drawers was something that gregor - position: 9
not said enough and that his father took it to mean that something - position: 13
if he wanted to say something would invariably stop and gather his - position: 6
protrusions - then, right beside him, lightly tossed, something flew - position: 8
kitchen.  unnecessary clutter was something they could not tolerate, - position: 5
the gentlemen stood as one, and mumbled something into their beards. - position: 8
however nice they might be.  "i'd like to eat something", said - position: 10
ahead as if waiting for something.  and indeed, his two friends - position: 6
morning the fresh air had something of warmth mixed in with it.  it - position: 6
something they had not done for months, and took the tram out to the - position: 1

all-important:
thought at first, but all the furniture apart from the all-important - position: 11

resolve:
slowly resolve themselves today.  he did not have the slightest - position: 2

institute:
the employees at the banking institute; above the high, stiff collar - position: 6

1.e.7:
through 1.e.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the - position: 2
must comply with both paragraphs 1.e.1 through 1.e.7 and any additional - position: 8
1.e.7.  do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying, - position: 1

online:
with this ebook or online at www.gutenberg.net - position: 5
gutenberg-tm license (available with this file or online at - position: 8
with this ebook or online at www.gutenberg.net - position: 5
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card - position: 5

pantry:
the pantry where he could take all the things he was entitled to, - position: 2

brought:
taste, she brought him a whole selection of things, all spread out - position: 3
from poor people, gregor's father brought bank employees their - position: 6
especially if it was dirty.  they had moreover brought most of their - position: 9
thereby brought gregor's father to a halt.  "i declare here and - position: 2

considerate:
considerate as he could, but, unfortunately, it was his mother who - position: 1
how considerate he was but now it hardly occurred to him that he had - position: 2

earn:
without travelling i couldn't earn my living.  so where are you - position: 5
earn an enormous wage as well as having a soft time of it.  that's - position: 1
representative almost overnight, bringing with it the chance to earn - position: 10
and earn money? she suffered from asthma and it was a strain for her - position: 2
sister have to go and earn money? she was still a child of - position: 6
violin.  whenever they began to talk of the need to earn money, - position: 11

plenty:
come into gregor's room any more until morning; that gave him plenty - position: 12

introduction:
as introduction, "we can't carry on like this.  maybe you can't see - position: 2

chuck:
anything she couldn't use for the time being she would just chuck in - position: 12

anxiously:
front room and looked anxiously in.  she did not see him straight - position: 5
sister, who had been looking on anxiously, began to breathe again - position: 7
gregor anxiously, "but not anything like they're eating.  they do - position: 2
gregor's father observed them anxiously.  it really now seemed very - position: 5

general:
set forth in the general terms of use part of this license, apply to - position: 5
section 1.  general terms of use and redistributing project gutenberg-tm - position: 3
section 5.  general information about project gutenberg-tm electronic - position: 3

long:
think about i'd have given in my notice a long time ago, i'd have - position: 10
would have put in his report about gregor's not being there a long - position: 13
fact, apart from excessive sleepiness after sleeping for so long, - position: 10
long pauses between each, individual word.  his father went back to - position: 1
once during that long evening, the door on one side of the room was - position: 4
because he couldn't stand the smell.  long after he had finished - position: 7
partly because it was a long time since he had been occupied with - position: 6
she would strain herself.  this lasted a very long time.  after - position: 9
used to this furniture in his room for a long time and it would make - position: 10
mother, unheard for so long, that had shaken him out of it.  nothing - position: 5
they had not allowed themselves a long rest and came back quite - position: 7
long uniform coat, and, with look of determination, walked towards - position: 1
would not be able to keep up this running about for long, as for - position: 12
ancient invalid and it took him long, long minutes to crawl across - position: 7
ancient invalid and it took him long, long minutes to crawl across - position: 8
next time the door was opened; he had long forgotten about his boss - position: 9
her long life, wasn't really repelled by gregor.  just by chance one - position: 2
harmed ourselves by believing it for so long.  how can that be - position: 8
gregor? if it were gregor he would have seen long ago that it's not - position: 10
him.  she happened to be holding the long broom in her hand, so she - position: 8
"just look how thin he was.  he didn't eat anything for so long. - position: 13
delay, the man actually did take long strides into the front - position: 7
works based on the work as long as all references to project gutenberg - position: 7

harmed:
harmed ourselves by believing it for so long.  how can that be - position: 1

begged:
the very first day the maid had fallen to her knees and begged - position: 13

experienced:
than experienced,  as what he actually saw in this way was becoming - position: 2
unlike anything experienced by anyone else they knew or were related - position: 3
quickly moving toward.  under his sister's experienced hand, the - position: 7

flank:
he lay at an angle in the doorway, one flank scraped on the white - position: 10

facility:
most people start at our web site which has the main pg search facility: - position: 14

furniture:
and tops of the furniture, but down below, where gregor was, it was - position: 5
removing the furniture that got in his way, especially the chest of - position: 3
furniture away would really be any help to him.  she thought just - position: 1
used to this furniture in his room for a long time and it would make - position: 4
taking the furniture away, won't it seem like we're showing that - position: 3
with the nice furniture he had inherited? that would have let him - position: 4
the good influence the furniture had on his condition; and if the - position: 5
furniture made it difficult for him to crawl about mindlessly that - position: 1
thought at first, but all the furniture apart from the all-important - position: 7
crawl about in, whereas the furniture, as far as anyone could see, - position: 6
happening, it was just a few pieces of furniture being moved after - position: 9
little calls to each other, the scraping of the furniture on the - position: 10
he crawled over everything, walls, furniture, ceiling, and finally - position: 6
were concealed behind carefully carved furniture full of notches and - position: 6

bit:
quite sad.  "how about if i sleep a little bit longer and forget all - position: 10
efforts, he bit on the key with all his strength, paying no - position: 3
overcome the urge to flee when she saw the little bit of him that - position: 11
bit of attention". the two women immediately did as he said, - position: 1

peered:
which he leant over to one side as he peered out at the others. - position: 10

involved:
involved and then set himself to the task of turning the key in the - position: 1

nodding:
kept nodding it could be seen that he was not sleeping at all. - position: 2

anyway:
early train.  we don't know what to say to him.  and anyway, he - position: 12
as gregor opens the door.  anyway, i'm glad you're here; we wouldn't - position: 6
afterwards anyway even if he hadn't been disturbed, as he had had - position: 2
anything different, and gregor had never asked him about it anyway. - position: 11
were there anyway, as they were now too tired to say anything while - position: 3
his room, not while he lived, anyway; his shocking appearance - position: 7

ill:
service gregor had never once yet been ill.  his boss would - position: 8
that no-one was ever ill but that many were workshy.  and what's - position: 5
ill and we're making him suffer.  grete! grete!" she then cried. - position: 1
away.  gregor is ill.  quick, get the doctor.  did you hear the way - position: 4
entering the room of someone seriously ill or even of a stranger. - position: 7
the sight of gregor, he might have made her ill, so gregor hurried - position: 10
water to do it - although that much dampness also made gregor ill - position: 12

toward:
that he started to move toward her, he was slow and infirm, but it - position: 6
quickly moving toward.  under his sister's experienced hand, the - position: 3

beg:
beg of you."  gregor, however, had no thought of opening the door, - position: 1
couch, throw himself at his sister's feet and beg her for something - position: 9

accepting:
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who - position: 2

high:
as a business trainee, at high school, even while he had been at - position: 6
the employees at the banking institute; above the high, stiff collar - position: 9
but nonetheless lifted his feet unusually high.  gregor was amazed - position: 7
with a dish piled high with potatoes.  the food was steaming, and - position: 5

persuade:
the chief clerk was a lover of women, surely she could persuade him; - position: 12
father to wake him and try to persuade him to go to bed, as he - position: 8
and it was then harder than ever to persuade him to exchange the - position: 9

infirm:
that he started to move toward her, he was slow and infirm, but it - position: 12

see:
see his brown belly, slightly domed and divided by arches into stiff - position: 1
could see from the bed that it had been set for four o'clock as it - position: 2
assistant would have been there to see the five o'clock train go, he - position: 7
how nice it is; it's hanging up in his room; you'll see it as soon - position: 12
business considerations."  "can the chief clerk come in to see you - position: 10
that that could not be the right explanation.  but now that i see - position: 13
reason i don't see why your parents should not also learn of it. - position: 4
to open the door, really did want to let them see him and to speak - position: 11
see onto the landing and the stairs where they began their way down - position: 1
see", he said to the chief clerk, "that i'm not stubborn and i - position: 1
held her head suggested she wanted to see gregor better, but the - position: 8
to see his good intentions as he did nothing to hinder him, in fact - position: 2
- in order to see what had been happening there.  the whole of his - position: 4
through the crack in the door, gregor could see that the gas had - position: 9
was put out, and now it was easy to see that his parents and sister had - position: 10
front room and looked anxiously in.  she did not see him straight - position: 10
street, but now he could not see it at all, and if he had not known - position: 7
able to see through it all so much better.  it had even become very - position: 3
and his sister would not be able to see him even if she bent down. - position: 9
to see how his sister liked the new arrangement. - position: 2
themselves to come into the room to see him.  he would often hear - position: 8
"let me go and see gregor, he is my unfortunate son! can't you - position: 5
understand i have to see him?", and gregor would think to himself - position: 5
gregor's wish to see his mother was soon realised.  out of - position: 4
sister came in and looked round to see that everything in the room - position: 8
spying out from under the sheet; he gave up the chance to see his - position: 13
crawl about in, whereas the furniture, as far as anyone could see, - position: 12
see what he could do about it.  he meant to be as careful and - position: 1
infant school--he really could not wait any longer to see whether - position: 10
living room for a while?"  gregor could see what grete had in mind, - position: 8
see straight away that gregor had the best intentions and would go - position: 1
might see it as especially provoking if he fled onto the wall or - position: 2
ability to see anything - her hands behind his father's head begging - position: 3
see quite well, though, that there were more reasons than - position: 1
without his sister doing anything about it; she could see the dirt - position: 10
there.  he, fortunately, would usually see no more than the object - position: 6
as introduction, "we can't carry on like this.  maybe you can't see - position: 12
coughing to listen, "it'll be the death of both of you, i can see it - position: 14
but it was nonetheless enough to see that nothing behind him had - position: 7
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  see - position: 11
works.  see paragraph 1.e below. - position: 2
and how your efforts and donations can help, see sections 3 and 4 - position: 9

exclaim:
exclaim a loud "oh!", which sounded like the soughing of the wind. - position: 1

everything's:
frequent, she would often say, sadly, "now everything's just been - position: 8

reliable:
lungs had not been very reliable.  now, as he lurched about in his - position: 6

printed:
research.  they may be modified and printed and given away--you may do - position: 7
project gutenberg-tm ebooks are often created from several printed - position: 9

intellectual:
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property - position: 10
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual - position: 9

hear:
went to the door as ever and opened it.  gregor only needed to hear - position: 14
for his sister to hear him. - position: 5
away.  gregor is ill.  quick, get the doctor.  did you hear the way - position: 11
thing, we don't usually even hear about them, or if at all it's when - position: 6
hear his sister's sighs and appeals to the saints as she moved about - position: 1
although gregor wasn't able to hear any news directly he did listen - position: 6
parents did not like to hear this innocent talk, but gregor thought - position: 6
themselves to come into the room to see him.  he would often hear - position: 13
she approached the room, gregor could hear his mother express her - position: 7
not know) to hear not even the tone of her voice, as she was - position: 4
they worked and he could only hear their feet as they stepped - position: 7
always ready to serve and expecting to hear the voice of his - position: 8
obvious that they had expected to hear some beautiful or - position: 7
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new ebooks. - position: 7

accepted:
international donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make - position: 5
methods and addresses.  donations are accepted in a number of other - position: 6

abandoned:
him feel abandoned to be in an empty room like that.  then, quietly, - position: 3
abandoned his mother as she pushed herself vigorously out of her - position: 1

501(c)(3:
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the - position: 1
number is 64-6221541.  its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at - position: 5

fail:
unnecessary concern to your parents and you fail - and i mention - position: 8
this just by the way - you fail to carry out your business duties in - position: 7

violin:
violin.  whenever they began to talk of the need to earn money, - position: 1
violin being played, but this evening it began to be heard from the - position: 1
smoking.  when the violin began playing they became attentive, stood - position: 4
called back gregor's father as if he had been the violin player - position: 11
the music and his sister with the violin.  she calmly prepared - position: 8
the violin playing; at first, the three gentlemen had put their - position: 2
entertaining violin playing but had been disappointed, that they had - position: 2
come into his room with her violin, as no-one appreciated her - position: 7
gregor as he slowly moved forward.  the violin went silent, the - position: 8
seemed to think gregor was more entertaining than the violin playing - position: 10
suddenly interrupted.  she had let her hands drop and let violin and - position: 11
when the violin on his mother's lap fell from her trembling fingers - position: 3

scurry:
anyone speaking he would scurry straight to the appropriate door and - position: 5

terribly:
round sharply and left, slamming the door terribly as she went. - position: 8

explanations:
understand everything the first time.  from these repeated explanations - position: 9
knowing it.  they asked gregor's father for explanations, raised - position: 8

depends:
project gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide - position: 3

ah:
that; "ah!", he shouted as he came in, sounding as if he were both - position: 2

rushed:
movement, drew his foot from the living room, and rushed forward in - position: 10
the table and into the arms of his father as he rushed towards her. - position: 12
into his room with her foot before she rushed out to work in the - position: 9
had been.  he rushed up to them with his arms spread out and - position: 4
gregor's sister rushed to his mother and put her hand on her - position: 3
anywhere near gregor.  she rushed over to behind her father, who had - position: 5

innocent:
they have to show the whole, innocent family that this was so - position: 7
parents did not like to hear this innocent talk, but gregor thought - position: 8

cross:
thinks about the business.  it nearly makes me cross the way he - position: 9

limited:
"defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or - position: 6
1.f.2.  limited warranty, disclaimer of damages - except for the "right - position: 2
1.f.3.  limited right of replacement or refund - if you discover a - position: 2
1.f.4.  except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth - position: 5
warranties of any kind, express or implied, including but not limited to - position: 11

decide:
he was still hurriedly thinking all this through, unable to decide - position: 11

count:
eating it, and the gentleman in the middle, who seemed to count as - position: 12

much:
takes much more effort than doing your own business at home, and on - position: 2
feel completely well and even felt much hungrier than usual. - position: 7
it took just as much effort to get back to where he had been - position: 5
remind himself that calm consideration was much better than rushing - position: 7
be sacked on the spot.  and it seemed to gregor much more sensible - position: 11
gregor, in contrast, had become much calmer.  so they couldn't - position: 6
meanwhile the day had become much lighter; part of the endless, - position: 6
table; there was so much of it because, for gregor's father, - position: 5
they had so much to worry about at present that they had lost sight - position: 4
help, his appeals were simply not understood, however much he humbly - position: 9
think about too much, so he started to move about, crawling up and - position: 4
compellingly, attracted him much more than the other foods on the - position: 4
as eating so much food had rounded out his body a little and he - position: 4
to much of what was said in the next rooms, and whenever he heard - position: 2
how much she knew of what had happened but she left within a quarter - position: 2
although that was not so much bother as no-one ate very much. - position: 6
although that was not so much bother as no-one ate very much. - position: 12
or something similar.  no-one drank very much either.  his sister - position: 7
splendour, even though gregor had later earned so much that he was - position: 9
although there was no longer much warm affection given in return. - position: 6
much closer, but now it was certainly better the way his father had - position: 1
able to see through it all so much better.  it had even become very - position: 8
before his sister came back and she seemed much more uneasy than - position: 9
everything much better than his sister who, for all her courage, was - position: 2
not give him much room to crawl about, it was hard to just lie - position: 4
that he could not stand all of this much longer.  they were emptying - position: 9
thrown without much force glanced against gregor's back and slid off - position: 3
because of his injuries, gregor had lost much of his mobility - - position: 8
"you're doing so much sewing again today!", as if he did not know - position: 4
chair for his bed.  then, however much mother and sister would - position: 7
complaint was that although the flat was much too big for their - position: 8
from their decision to move was much more to do with their total - position: 7
do any more.  and the injury in gregor's back began to hurt as much - position: 14
water to do it - although that much dampness also made gregor ill - position: 7
all, much more cosy and comfortable?"  "oh yes, we'd love to", - position: 2
his back and sides; he was much too indifferent to everything now to - position: 7
playing here as much as he would.  he never wanted to let her out of - position: 4
been in so much of a rush.  she had been standing there waiting and - position: 4
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up - position: 3

droplets:
falling, now throwing down large, individual droplets which hit the - position: 7

alarm:
and he looked over at the alarm clock, ticking on the chest of - position: 7
past, more like quarter to seven.  had the alarm clock not rung? he - position: 9
alarm.  but it was something that had to be risked. - position: 1
light sleep, although he frequently woke from it in alarm because of - position: 10
while.  she would alarm gregor twice a day with this running about - position: 4
look", she suddenly screamed, "he's starting again!"   in her alarm, - position: 10

hotel:
he was tired and getting into the damp bed in some small hotel room. - position: 13
provincial hotel, a tender memory that appeared and disappeared - position: 2

deep:
recognised as the voice he had had before.  as if from deep inside - position: 12
bleeding, deep into his room.  the door was slammed shut with the - position: 2
from his deep and coma-like sleep.  he would have woken soon - position: 3

forth:
back and forth - it occurred to him how simple everything would be - position: 3
in his hand and a carefree smile on his face as he called forth - position: 14
strangers, his sister ran back and forth behind her desk at the - position: 7
set forth in the general terms of use part of this license, apply to - position: 2
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.e.8. - position: 10
imposed by the copyright holder on this work are set forth at the - position: 11
project gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.e.8 or - position: 6
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.e.1 with - position: 6
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from - position: 1
foundation as set forth in section 3 below. - position: 4
1.f.4.  except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth - position: 12
if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the - position: 7

climb:
times he tried to climb up on the smooth chest of drawers he just - position: 5
out in tears of emotion, and gregor would climb up to her shoulder - position: 9

hurriedly:
he was still hurriedly thinking all this through, unable to decide - position: 4
opened very slightly and hurriedly closed again; later on the door - position: 5
hurriedly open almost as if she were suffocating.  even if it was - position: 1
hurriedly pulled the sheet down lower over the couch and put more - position: 1
to her so that she would not look round and said, albeit hurriedly - position: 13
how she could please him but would hurriedly push some food or other - position: 8
he was hardly inside his room before the door was hurriedly shut, - position: 11

enjoyed:
construed as friendly.  "he's enjoyed his dinner today", she might - position: 5

school:
as a business trainee, at high school, even while he had been at - position: 7

tugged:
their arms like he had, tugged excitedly at their beards and moved - position: 6

acceptance:
his eyes in acceptance of his sister's certainty that that was quite - position: 4

lieu:
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a - position: 12
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  if the second copy - position: 6

shouts:
disappeared; his shouts resounding all around the staircase.  the - position: 3

shouting:
fingers spread shouting: "help, for pity's sake, help!"  the way she - position: 3

happen:
probably nothing would happen to it falling onto the carpet.  his - position: 4
that had happened to him today could ever happen to the chief clerk - position: 9
shocking, what can suddenly happen to a person! i was quite alright - position: 5
regard for what might happen.  one side of his body lifted itself, - position: 5
swing to it; and up there, relaxed and almost happy, it might happen - position: 13

crack:
through the crack in the door, gregor could see that the gas had - position: 3
full beards, as gregor learned peering through the crack in the door - position: 9

seven:
past, more like quarter to seven.  had the alarm clock not rung? he - position: 6
seven; if he were to catch that he would have to rush like mad and - position: 1
to get out of the bed, when the clock struck quarter to seven. - position: 13
somebody called - it was his mother - "it's quarter to seven. - position: 10
to offer him.  "seven o'clock, already", he said to himself when the - position: 4
clock struck again, "seven o'clock, and there's still a fog like - position: 4
but then he said to himself: "before it strikes quarter past seven - position: 12
as well, as they open up at work before seven o'clock."  and so he - position: 10
time was now ten past seven and he would have to make a final - position: 6

fiery:
possible.  so then he started working especially hard, with a fiery - position: 11

simple:
it was a simple matter to throw off the covers; he only had to blow - position: 4
back and forth - it occurred to him how simple everything would be - position: 9
mood to look after his family, he was filled with simple rage about - position: 11

receiving:
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can - position: 10

showed:
illustrated magazine and housed in a nice, gilded frame.  it showed - position: 11
unthinking way she was hurrying backwards showed that she did not; - position: 7
rented a room out before and therefore showed an exaggerated - position: 8

especially:
especially when you have to go right up close because the boss is - position: 1
difficult after that, especially as he was so exceptionally broad. - position: 4
it's not the time of year to do especially good business, we - position: 9
especially at first, that was not about him in some way, even if - position: 1
possible.  so then he started working especially hard, with a fiery - position: 7
of crawling up and down the walls and ceiling.  he was especially - position: 12
removing the furniture that got in his way, especially the chest of - position: 9
and never to have to open the door unless it was especially - position: 12
might see it as especially provoking if he fled onto the wall or - position: 5
this establishment, in the entire flat and especially in the - position: 8
especially if it was dirty.  they had moreover brought most of their - position: 1
especially unnerving, the way they all blew the smoke from their - position: 1
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial - position: 6

yank:
whistled to herself, but did not waste time to yank open the bedroom - position: 10

politeness:
politeness that they allowed their peace to be disturbed.  it was - position: 1

stranger:
entering the room of someone seriously ill or even of a stranger. - position: 12
closed the door behind her, a stranger would have thought he had - position: 7

damages:
consider whether to proceed with some kind of action for damages - position: 11
1.f.2.  limited warranty, disclaimer of damages - except for the "right - position: 6
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal - position: 5
incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of such - position: 2
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages. - position: 11

relieved:
away from the landing and went, as if relieved, back into the flat. - position: 9

state:
state couldn't get into that position.  however hard he threw - position: 1
to their real and natural state. - position: 6
of his shocked state.  but his sister was not there, gregor would - position: 4
state, or that his speech still might not - or probably would not - - position: 1
their business misfortune had reduced the family to a state of total - position: 10
mind in his present state, pressed upright against the door and - position: 5
first he thought it was distress at the state of his room that - position: 9
moment, and he waited.  he was not even startled out of this state - position: 13
state a little while before and almost without noticing it.  he - position: 1
sister.  he remained in this state of empty and peaceful rumination - position: 6
a constant state of change.  if you are outside the united states, check - position: 3
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be - position: 4
the applicable state law.  the invalidity or unenforceability of any - position: 3
state of mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the internal - position: 1
particular state visit http://pglaf.org - position: 2

sacrificed:
breakfast, his mother sacrificed herself by washing clothes for - position: 4

vigour:
vigour that raised him from a junior salesman to a travelling - position: 1

spindly:
able to actually move around on those spindly little legs until then - position: 8

size:
with the size of the rest of him, waved about helplessly as he - position: 3
at the enormous size of the soles of his boots, but wasted no time - position: 4

quivering:
by himself, the little legs along one side hung quivering in the air - position: 10

unpleasantness:
unpleasantness that he, in his present condition, was forced to - position: 1

answer:
answer and explain everything, but in the circumstances contented - position: 1
than yes or no for an answer, you are causing serious and - position: 7
to eat, and receive no more answer than "no thanks, i've had enough" - position: 7
that grete would have to go and answer it.  his father had arrived - position: 8

brother:
it, but i can.  i don't want to call this monster my brother, all i - position: 13
would have gone of his own free will.  we wouldn't have a brother - position: 13

alone:
gregor's room was for her and her alone.  gregor's mother did once - position: 8
then, once they were alone, they ate in near perfect silence.  it - position: 5
outside the united states.  u.s. laws alone swamp our small staff. - position: 7

locksmith:
the entrance hall, clapping his hands, "get a locksmith here, now!" - position: 9
from the doctor and the locksmith he expected great and surprising - position: 6
"so, i didn't need the locksmith after all". then he lay his head on - position: 6
doctor and the locksmith that first morning to get them out of the - position: 4

heavily:
released him from where he was held and sent him flying, and heavily - position: 13
heavily on the floor. - position: 1
more."  and she broke out so heavily in tears that they flowed down - position: 7

forgive:
sure he'll be good enough to forgive the untidiness of your room." - position: 7

breathe:
could hardly breathe in that narrow space.  half suffocating, he - position: 3
on the floor; he could breathe more freely; his body had a light - position: 6
make it easier for her to breathe), she ran to his father, her - position: 7
sister, who had been looking on anxiously, began to breathe again - position: 10

pushing:
on pushing himself forward the same way.  and he could not knock - position: 2
to all the effort of pushing a chair to the window, climbing up onto - position: 6
chest, pushing and pulling at it from side to side by herself - position: 2
put his hands in his trouser pockets, pushing back the bottom of his - position: 8

steps:
some nonsensical hope.  but then of course, the maid's firm steps - position: 11
at his father.  then she unfolded her arms, took two steps forward - position: 11
expected something, as he leapt down several steps at once and - position: 8
some hurried steps and the sound of the door leading into the front - position: 3
steps.  as they turned the corner on each floor they disappeared and - position: 1

imagine:
imagine what it looked like; it turned out to be too hard to move; - position: 1
on the left.  gregor tried to imagine whether something of the sort - position: 7

happening:
him and crying.  but the others didn't know what was happening, they - position: 11
- in order to see what had been happening there.  the whole of his - position: 8
happening, it was just a few pieces of furniture being moved after - position: 1
without anything decisive happening, without even giving the - position: 4

played:
violin being played, but this evening it began to be heard from the - position: 3
stand to look at all the notes being played, and they must have - position: 9
definite ideas.  he sat upright, played with his uniform cap between - position: 6

whatever:
thing to do would be to get free of it in whatever way he could at - position: 12
whatever sacrifice.  at the same time, though, he did not forget to - position: 1
other.  whatever was said next would be crucial, so, in order to - position: 2
ceiling.  whatever he did, gregor had to admit that he certainly - position: 2

group:
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set - position: 4

recently:
above it there hung a picture that he had recently cut out of an - position: 10
appear, it's true - it had to do with the money that was recently - position: 13
unexpected confidence she had recently acquired, that made her - position: 5

cave:
wanted to transform his room into a cave, a warm room fitted out - position: 8

maid:
and the maid in mind - would have been more than enough; they would - position: 3
morning while his parents and the maid were still asleep, and the - position: 7
sister would send the maid away on some errand.  gregor's father and - position: 5
the very first day the maid had fallen to her knees and begged - position: 6
father; the sixteen year old maid had carried on bravely since the - position: 6
door.  the maid, of course, had locked herself in her kitchen so - position: 3
household budget became even smaller; so now the maid was dismissed; - position: 9

true:
true, he had not slept peacefully, but probably all the more deeply - position: 1
appear, it's true - it had to do with the money that was recently - position: 3
was unnatural.  he also felt relatively comfortable.  it is true - position: 10

harmful:
the harmful effects of what's been going on without even knowing - position: 2

containing:
already taken out the chest containing his fretsaw and other tools; - position: 6
license terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this - position: 9

forgot:
forgot that the walls were there for him to use although, here, they - position: 1
seemed so obsessed with what he was doing that he forgot all the - position: 11

block:
trying to block their view of gregor with his body.  now they did - position: 3

conclusions:
that he would not bring his thoughts to any sensible conclusions by - position: 11
to desperate conclusions.  at times like this he would direct his - position: 3

longing:
course, the ones that gregor always thought about with longing when - position: 10

pushed:
slight itch up on his belly; pushed himself slowly up on his back - position: 7
gregor slowly pushed his way over to the door with the chair.  once - position: 3
upright with his mouth, and hung onto the key or pushed it down - position: 11
be understood, he let go of the door; pushed himself through the - position: 9
experience, and gregor pushed himself into the doorway without - position: 4
dark.  he pushed himself over to the door, feeling his way clumsily - position: 3
gregor had pushed his head forward, right to the edge of the couch, - position: 3
pushed it from its place, his sister always taking on the heaviest - position: 1
hardly had the two women pushed the chest of drawers, groaning, out - position: 6
stumbling over the skirts she pushed herself to his father, her arms - position: 6
hand pushed in between two buttons on his uniform coat; his mother, - position: 2
abandoned his mother as she pushed herself vigorously out of her - position: 6

firm:
some nonsensical hope.  but then of course, the maid's firm steps - position: 10
reply to this question, the chief clerk's firm footsteps in his - position: 8
clerk go away in this mood if his position in the firm was not to be - position: 12

pane:
drops of rain could be heard hitting the pane, which made him feel - position: 9
even left the inner pane of the window open from then on. - position: 5

slept:
true, he had not slept peacefully, but probably all the more deeply - position: 5
gregor hardly slept at all, either night or day.  sometimes he would - position: 3

gas:
through the crack in the door, gregor could see that the gas had - position: 12

united:
one owns a united states copyright in these works, so the foundation - position: 4
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the united states without - position: 10
collection are in the public domain in the united states.  if an - position: 9
individual work is in the public domain in the united states and you are - position: 10
located in the united states, we do not claim a right to prevent you from - position: 4
a constant state of change.  if you are outside the united states, check - position: 11
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the united - position: 12
and distributed to anyone in the united states without paying any fees - position: 7
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the united - position: 11
outside the united states.  u.s. laws alone swamp our small staff. - position: 3

distribute:
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the united states without - position: 6
please read this before you distribute or use this work - position: 6
1.e.5.  do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this - position: 7
1.e.6.  you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary, - position: 7
distribute copies of a project gutenberg-tm work in a format other than - position: 1
1.e.9.  if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a project gutenberg-tm - position: 10

shown:
the lack of attention he was shown, and although he could think of - position: 7
seemed to him that he was being shown the way to the unknown - position: 8

say:
early train.  we don't know what to say to him.  and anyway, he - position: 8
nothing serious.  but on the other hand, i must say that if we - position: 10
all that secure.  i had originally intended to say all this to you - position: 9
curious to learn what they would say when they caught sight of him. - position: 7
staff, in fact, if i can say this in confidence, a better overview - position: 7
what caused them.  please, don't go away, at least first say - position: 11
say when he had diligently cleared away all the food left for him, - position: 1
frequent, she would often say, sadly, "now everything's just been - position: 5
had taken the item he wanted.  what he heard his father say was some - position: 12
all go silent.  "what's that he's doing now", his father would say - position: 12
perhaps, one or two years, no more.  that's to say, it was money - position: 10
them say how they appreciated all the new work his sister was doing - position: 2
were there anyway, as they were now too tired to say anything while - position: 11
if he wanted to say something would invariably stop and gather his - position: 5
sometimes his father would wake up and say to gregor's mother - position: 8
look at them one after the other and say: "what a life! this is what - position: 9
point to gregor's room and say "close that door, grete", and then, - position: 6
can say is: we have to try and get rid of it.  we've done all that's - position: 2

lap:
the instrument on her mother's lap who still sat laboriously - position: 6
when the violin on his mother's lap fell from her trembling fingers - position: 7

domed:
see his brown belly, slightly domed and divided by arches into stiff - position: 6

shaken:
mother, unheard for so long, that had shaken him out of it.  nothing - position: 8

1.e.5:
1.e.5.  do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this - position: 1

achieved:
achieved in the past and consider that later on, once the difficulty - position: 1
improvement for the time being, of course, would be achieved quite - position: 10

described:
of replacement or refund" described in paragraph 1.f.3, the project - position: 5

mood:
clerk go away in this mood if his position in the firm was not to be - position: 6
his present mood, it obviously did not occur to his father to open - position: 3
his father, though, was not in the mood to notice subtleties like - position: 8
mood to look after his family, he was filled with simple rage about - position: 1

returns:
returns.  royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and - position: 1

leave:
clerk has come round and wants to know why you didn't leave on the - position: 12
to leave him now in peace instead of disturbing him with talking at - position: 2
samples and set off.  will you please just let me leave? you can - position: 11
it was out of the question to leave the flat entirely empty.  and on - position: 8
be better to leave the chest where it was, for one thing it was too - position: 4
cope for himself? i think it'd be best to leave the room exactly the - position: 10
leave her work to help her mother, but nothing would have any effect - position: 1
to bed gregor's mother and sister would now leave their work where - position: 9
as well as he could but she had simply decided to leave him to it. - position: 12
might take some of it into his mouth to play with it, leave it there - position: 13
"leave my home.  now!", said  mr. samsa, indicating the door and - position: 1
the cleaner still did not seem to want to leave that they looked up - position: 10

sunshine:
sunshine, all to themselves.  leant back comfortably on their seats, - position: 1

senses:
and spread himself out, all his senses in confusion.  the last thing - position: 7

world:
to.  they carried out absolutely everything that the world expects - position: 9

rag:
some surprise.  she immediately picked it up - using a rag, - position: 10

selection:
taste, she brought him a whole selection of things, all spread out - position: 7

forward:
on pushing himself forward the same way.  and he could not knock - position: 4
at his father.  then she unfolded her arms, took two steps forward - position: 12
movement, drew his foot from the living room, and rushed forward in - position: 11
gregor had pushed his head forward, right to the edge of the couch, - position: 6
although he did feel a terrible urge to rush forward from under the - position: 10
way forward a little more slowly than them, who were already walking - position: 2
playing, gregor had dared to come forward a little and already had - position: 7
shy to move forward a little onto the immaculate floor of the living - position: 4
expression.  gregor crawled a little further forward, keeping his - position: 7
way forward to his sister and tug at her skirt to show her she might - position: 2
gregor as he slowly moved forward.  the violin went silent, the - position: 6
sprung forward lightly, gregor had not heard her coming at all, and - position: 2

watch:
door into the living room so that he could watch the women when they - position: 10
where he could not be seen from the living room, he could watch the - position: 13

chambermaids:
friends from other businesses, one of the chambermaids from a - position: 8

network:
gutenberg-tm ebooks with only a loose network of volunteer support. - position: 7

disturb:
instead of letting her disturb him for no reason whenever she felt - position: 5

read:
of these things.  maybe you haven't read the latest contracts i sent - position: 7
please read this before you distribute or use this work - position: 2
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to - position: 8
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by - position: 11

thick-boned:
an enormous, thick-boned charwoman with white hair that flapped - position: 3

hissing:
stop gregor's father as he drove him back, making hissing noises at - position: 10
that unbearable hissing! it was making gregor quite confused.  when - position: 3
hissing, he made a mistake and turned himself back a little the way - position: 1

maximum:
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by - position: 5

notifies:
- you provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies - position: 14

permanent:
and permanent future for project gutenberg-tm and future generations. - position: 2

earth:
grey earth mingled inseparably.  his observant sister only needed to - position: 2

drove:
stop gregor's father as he drove him back, making hissing noises at - position: 6

useless:
useless and frequently been annoyed with her.  but now the two of - position: 1

body:
the first thing he wanted to do was get the lower part of his body - position: 15
part of his body might well, at present, be the most sensitive. - position: 4
so then he tried to get the top part of his body out of the bed - position: 12
his body eventually followed slowly in the direction of the head. - position: 2
set himself to the task of swinging the entire length of his body - position: 13
stood there upright; the lower part of his body was in serious pain - position: 9
again with the whole weight of his body as needed.  the clear sound - position: 8
only half of his body could be seen, along with his head above it - position: 5
feel alright with his body; the little legs had the solid ground - position: 5
body was too broad to get through it without further difficulty.  in - position: 1
regard for what might happen.  one side of his body lifted itself, - position: 10
eat if his whole body worked together as a snuffling whole - but the - position: 5
immediately at ease and his only regret was that his body was too - position: 11
as eating so much food had rounded out his body a little and he - position: 10
press his whole body against it.  there was seldom any conversation, - position: 4
on the floor; he could breathe more freely; his body had a light - position: 10
better control of his body than before and, even with a fall as - position: 5
his body pressed to the floor, he was forced to admit to himself - position: 2
trying to block their view of gregor with his body.  now they did - position: 10
that his entire body was aching, but the pain seemed to be slowly - position: 4
cleaner, and to prove it she gave gregor's body another shove with - position: 9
body was indeed completely dried up and flat, they had not seen it - position: 1
but not without looking back at the body.  the cleaner shut the door - position: 8
first to get up and stretch out her young body. - position: 10

responded:
responded to being spoken to in that way, but just remained where he - position: 1

gregory:
dr. gregory b. newby - position: 2

wildest:
wildest possibilities, but he never could have guessed what his - position: 1

cooking:
now gregor's sister also had to help his mother with the cooking; - position: 12

plans:
nothing he would have wanted, he made plans of how he could get into - position: 8

limped:
left side seemed like one, painfully stretched scar,  and he limped - position: 11

obstinate:
been in work he had become more obstinate and would always insist on - position: 8

expecting:
always ready to serve and expecting to hear the voice of his - position: 6

dripped:
from his mouth, flowed over the key and dripped onto the floor. - position: 9

easy:
as easy as i'd thought.  i'm quite alright now, though.  it's - position: 2
than the boss himself - it's very easy for a businessman like him to - position: 7
was put out, and now it was easy to see that his parents and sister had - position: 8
and got it into her head to make it as easy as possible for him by - position: 11
would have been quite easy to transport him in any suitable crate - position: 5
gregor found it easy to give up having the door open, he had, after - position: 4
from you, and believe me it would be very easy to set out the - position: 10
rules is very easy.  you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose - position: 4

edition:
keep ebooks in compliance with any particular paper edition. - position: 9

daughter:
uniform with his wife on one arm and his daughter on the other.  all - position: 10
from either his wife or his daughter as the charwoman seemed to have - position: 7
simultaneously, with the thought of how their daughter was - position: 8

sufficiently:
it was sufficiently cooked or whether it should be sent back to the - position: 3

enquiringly:
"dead?", asked  mrs. samsa, looking at the charwoman enquiringly, - position: 9

recent:
recent times.  it was so quiet all around too, even though there - position: 1

viewing:
1.e.7.  do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying, - position: 10

subscribe:
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new ebooks. - position: 1

keeping:
money that gregor had been bringing home every month, keeping only a - position: 10
expression.  gregor crawled a little further forward, keeping his - position: 8
this agreement for keeping the project gutenberg-tm name associated with - position: 4
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full project - position: 1

sorrows:
he was soon believing that all his sorrows would soon be finally at - position: 8

control:
control.  if he wanted to bend one of them, then that was the first - position: 1
shocked that she lost control of herself and slammed the door shut - position: 5
better control of his body than before and, even with a fall as - position: 2

unusual:
gregor kept trying to assure himself that nothing unusual was - position: 9

act:
bad had happened, that he was responsible for some act of violence. - position: 10

transcribe:
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread - position: 8

intentions:
to see his good intentions as he did nothing to hinder him, in fact - position: 5
the two women's intentions were good.  he had nearly forgotten they - position: 4
see straight away that gregor had the best intentions and would go - position: 9
the men's intentions and as they leaned over the landing they saw how - position: 3
intentions, as soon as they reached their destination grete was the - position: 1

symptom:
a small symptom of it last night already.  they must have noticed - position: 3

located:
located in the united states, we do not claim a right to prevent you from - position: 1
1.d.  the copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern - position: 11
the foundation's principal office is located at 4557 melan dr. s. - position: 6
throughout numerous locations.  its business office is located at - position: 8

still:
to copy out the contract, these gentlemen are always still sitting - position: 10
hard of hearing.  well, there's still some hope; once i've got the - position: 6
the collection of samples was still not packed, and he did not at - position: 6
he was still hurriedly thinking all this through, unable to decide - position: 3
their expectations was still at home, and soon his father came - position: 4
clock struck again, "seven o'clock, and there's still a fog like - position: 8
still, although his little legs only became all the more lively as - position: 1
that yet.  gregor was still there and had not the slightest - position: 5
up.  i'm still in bed now.  i'm quite fresh again now, though.  i'm - position: 3
calmly he would still have no reason to be upset, and if he hurried - position: 4
room.  he was still occupied with this difficult movement, unable to - position: 4
a steady and invisible force.  gregor's mother, her hair still - position: 10
the other door which was still held bolted in place.  in this way - position: 6
line of windows piercing its facade; the rain was still - position: 10
trembling shoulders as he left.  he did not keep still for a moment - position: 10
in tears while gregor was still lying peacefully on his back.  and - position: 6
have to do the job himself.  and without considering that he still - position: 12
state, or that his speech still might not - or probably would not - - position: 6
he had nearly finished turning round, still listening to that - position: 7
thought of how his finger had still hurt the day before yesterday. - position: 7
morning while his parents and the maid were still asleep, and the - position: 9
there was still some money available from the old days.  it was not - position: 3
sister have to go and earn money? she was still a child of - position: 10
still staring out the window, motionless, and just where he would be - position: 1
difficult for her to immediately open the window while he was still - position: 12
usual.  it made him realise that she still found his appearance - position: 8
still just a child after all, and really might not have had an - position: 1
him quickly forget his past when he had still been human.  he had - position: 9
very still, remained there a moment, and then went back out to - position: 2
ought to have expected things to have changed, but still, still, was - position: 10
ought to have expected things to have changed, but still, still, was - position: 11
- more often than not - had been left totally untouched.  she still - position: 11
was to be punished still more for what she had done, as hardly had - position: 5
while it was still in its dish, clearly wishing to establish whether - position: 4
eating their chewing teeth could still be heard, as if they had - position: 6
still playing, but then she suddenly pulled herself together, lay - position: 1
the instrument on her mother's lap who still sat laboriously - position: 8
throughout all this, gregor had lain still where the three gentlemen - position: 7
mother, who still had not had time to catch her breath, began to - position: 3
hurry she still did, so that everyone in the flat knew when she'd - position: 3
special.  she thought he was laying there so still on purpose, - position: 9
and opened the window wide.  although it was still early in the - position: 9
straight line towards the man.  at first, he stood there still, - position: 11
the cleaner still did not seem to want to leave that they looked up - position: 3

bank:
bank, and threw it in an arc right across the room onto the sofa, - position: 1
from poor people, gregor's father brought bank employees their - position: 7

rearranging:
rearranging themselves into new positions.  "alright, we'll go - position: 1

army:
photograph of gregor when he was a lieutenant in the army, his sword - position: 11

plain:
"plain vanilla ascii" or other format used in the official version - position: 1
request, of the work in its original "plain vanilla ascii" or other - position: 8

bite:
threatened her and tried to bite her.  gregor went straight to hide - position: 6

derived:
1.e.2.  if an individual project gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived - position: 10

illness:
think you can get over an illness without staying at home.  please, - position: 7

melan:
the foundation's principal office is located at 4557 melan dr. s. - position: 9

lifelessly:
only one of them had been - and dragged along lifelessly. - position: 10

lightly:
this."  and he lay there quietly a while longer, breathing lightly - position: 11
protrusions - then, right beside him, lightly tossed, something flew - position: 6
sprung forward lightly, gregor had not heard her coming at all, and - position: 3

authority:
an authority for the other two, did indeed cut off a piece of meat - position: 2

seventeen:
seventeen, her life up till then had been very enviable, consisting - position: 1

30:
you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he - position: 8

pulling:
chest, pushing and pulling at it from side to side by herself - position: 4

exclusion:
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages. - position: 4

break:
of the lock as it snapped back was gregor's sign that he could break - position: 14
dissuade him from it.  on hearing all this, his sister would break - position: 12
mr. samsa might go into the hallway in front of them and break the - position: 13
and to go for a walk; not only had they earned a break from work but - position: 13

specific:
charge for the ebooks, unless you receive specific permission.  if you - position: 8

practically:
practically anything with public domain ebooks.  redistribution is - position: 1

eight:
in.  i'll set off with the eight o'clock train, as well, these few - position: 7
he really could be at the station for eight o'clock.  the first few - position: 9

thinking:
he was still hurriedly thinking all this through, unable to decide - position: 5

cooked:
it was sufficiently cooked or whether it should be sent back to the - position: 4

smears:
any quicker about it.  smears of dirt were left on the walls, here - position: 5

expected:
as if he perhaps expected the total stillness to bring things back - position: 5
would seriously have expected him to let the chief clerk in.  it was - position: 4
from the doctor and the locksmith he expected great and surprising - position: 8
expected something, as he leapt down several steps at once and - position: 1
expected", said his father, "just as i always said, but you women - position: 1
ought to have expected things to have changed, but still, still, was - position: 4
obvious that they had expected to hear some beautiful or - position: 5

ostrich:
to.  the almost vertical little ostrich feather on her hat, which - position: 6

inedible:
inedible two days before; a dry roll and some bread spread with - position: 1

human:
a proper human room although a little too small, lay peacefully - position: 3
different from the way that a human coughs and he was no longer sure - position: 7
lack of any direct human communication, along with the monotonous - position: 5
him quickly forget his past when he had still been human.  he had - position: 11
possible for human beings to live with an animal like that and he - position: 3

fluttered:
fluttered and some of them were blown onto the floor.  nothing would - position: 1

faithful:
one of them, louts, was there not one of them who was faithful and - position: 13

speak:
wants to speak to you personally.  so please open up this door.  i'm - position: 3
continued to speak through the door.  "he isn't well, please believe - position: 3
to open the door, really did want to let them see him and to speak - position: 15
speak, and, with protruding lips, only stared back at him over his - position: 1
if gregor had only been able to speak to his sister and thank her - position: 8
as soon as it struck ten, gregor's mother would speak gently to his - position: 10
speak to him in that way once again.  gregor was so resentful of it - position: 1
that made her unable to speak straight away, "well then, that thing - position: 6

less:
"am i less sensitive than i used to be, then?", he thought, and was - position: 3
less distinct every day, even things that were quite near; he had - position: 1

posted:
first posted: may 13, 2002 - position: 2
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied - position: 1
1.e.3.  if an individual project gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted - position: 10
to the project gutenberg-tm license for all works posted with the - position: 9
posted on the official project gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net), - position: 1
number is 64-6221541.  its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at - position: 8

laws:
1.d.  the copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern - position: 4
what you can do with this work.  copyright laws in most countries are in - position: 9
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement - position: 2
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the - position: 7
permitted by u.s. federal laws and your state's laws. - position: 5
permitted by u.s. federal laws and your state's laws. - position: 9
the foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating - position: 9
outside the united states.  u.s. laws alone swamp our small staff. - position: 6

length:
set himself to the task of swinging the entire length of his body - position: 10

difficult:
difficult after that, especially as he was so exceptionally broad. - position: 1
room.  he was still occupied with this difficult movement, unable to - position: 8
sister, so that i'm trapped in a difficult situation, but i will - position: 8
left side make it difficult to eat the food - he was only able to - position: 5
difficult for her to immediately open the window while he was still - position: 1
furniture made it difficult for him to crawl about mindlessly that - position: 4
consideration for him that made it difficult for them to move, it - position: 7

crossed:
while she just stood there in amazement with her hands crossed in - position: 11
for that". he crossed himself, and the three women followed his - position: 4

decisive:
without anything decisive happening, without even giving the - position: 3

originator:
professor michael s. hart is the originator of the project gutenberg-tm - position: 7

giving:
entrusted to you - but i came near to giving him my word of honour - position: 9
quietly through the night, his food soon stopped giving him any - position: 9
without anything decisive happening, without even giving the - position: 7

alternate:
form.  any alternate format must include the full project gutenberg-tm - position: 3

version:
"plain vanilla ascii" or other format used in the official version - position: 11

housed:
illustrated magazine and housed in a nice, gilded frame.  it showed - position: 4

whereabouts:
almost whispering as if wanting gregor (whose whereabouts she did - position: 8

sold:
had been sold, even though both mother and sister had been very fond - position: 3
sold, the family did not wish to discard.  all these things found - position: 1

additional:
must comply with both paragraphs 1.e.1 through 1.e.7 and any additional - position: 11
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  additional terms will be linked - position: 7
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a - position: 5
for additional contact information: - position: 2

heavy:
raising a heavy fur muff that covered the whole of her lower arm - position: 3
in by the hand.  the old chest of drawers was too heavy for a pair - position: 12
heavy for them to get the job finished before gregor's father got - position: 1
like it! one day, early in the morning while a heavy rain struck the - position: 11

enable:
this money, however, was certainly not enough to enable the family - position: 9

formerly:
they sat up at the table where, formerly, gregor had taken his meals - position: 8

intention:
intention of abandoning his family.  for the time being he just lay - position: 1
but gregor had had no intention of frightening anyone, least of all - position: 6
his good intention and had only been alarmed briefly.  now they all - position: 3

clever:
on it! if only his sister were here! she was clever; she was already - position: 11

stopped:
wouldn't have to look at the floundering legs, and only stopped when - position: 11
quietly through the night, his food soon stopped giving him any - position: 8
already looked uneasy in his room, she soon stopped speaking and - position: 9
strict with him.  and so he ran up to his father, stopped when his - position: 12
father stopped, scurried forwards again when he moved, even - position: 2
gregor had almost entirely stopped eating.  only if he happened to - position: 5
stopped him eating, but he had soon got used to the changes made - position: 1
floor.  he stopped and looked round.  they seemed to have realised - position: 3
hallway; his two friends had stopped rubbing their hands some time - position: 6

child:
sister have to go and earn money? she was still a child of - position: 12
still just a child after all, and really might not have had an - position: 4
"my child", said her father with sympathy and obvious understanding, - position: 2

volume:
to each other at half volume, and they stayed by the window while - position: 6

early:
he slid back into his former position.  "getting up early all the - position: 10
early train.  we don't know what to say to him.  and anyway, he - position: 1
decisions, as early the next morning, almost before the night had - position: 3
like it! one day, early in the morning while a heavy rain struck the - position: 5
when the cleaner came in early in the morning - they'd often asked - position: 6
and opened the window wide.  although it was still early in the - position: 10

helpless:
helpless; then they, too, became agitated; gregor's father, standing - position: 1

main:
main concern was for the loud noise he was bound to make, and which - position: 1
with a few air holes in it; the main thing holding the family back - position: 9
most people start at our web site which has the main pg search facility: - position: 11

indicating:
windowpanes, perhaps indicating that spring was coming, she began to - position: 3
"leave my home.  now!", said  mr. samsa, indicating the door and - position: 8
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is - position: 10

fallen:
"something's fallen down in there", said the chief clerk in the room - position: 2
the very first day the maid had fallen to her knees and begged - position: 8
had overcome the despair she had fallen into when her playing was - position: 7
that his mother had now fallen completely asleep. - position: 6

worry:
same demands as before? there was no need to worry about things like - position: 10
they had so much to worry about at present that they had lost sight - position: 6
in there, you needn't worry about how you're going to get rid of it. - position: 5
worry they had been having of late her cheeks had become pale, but, - position: 1

confirm:
been asleep, and the paleness of her face seemed to confirm this. - position: 11

breakfast:
his breakfast, but his sister whispered: "gregor, open the door, i - position: 2
disturbed, to get dressed, and most of all to have his breakfast. - position: 12
ground one at a time.  the washing up from breakfast lay on the - position: 10
breakfast was the most important meal of the day and he would - position: 1
breakfast things on it; when she reached the table she sat quickly - position: 1
breakfast, his mother sacrificed herself by washing clothes for - position: 1
"where is our breakfast?", the middle gentleman asked the cleaner - position: 4

reached:
only when he had reached the entrance hall that he made a sudden - position: 5
breakfast things on it; when she reached the table she sat quickly - position: 7
clerk had already reached the stairs; with his chin on the banister, - position: 4
it was only when he had reached the door that he realised what it - position: 7
before the three gentlemen had reached the room.  gregor's father - position: 6
he did not turn his head until he had reached the doorway.  he did - position: 10
intentions, as soon as they reached their destination grete was the - position: 6

money:
money together to pay off my parents' debt to him - another five or - position: 1
appear, it's true - it had to do with the money that was recently - position: 10
money in quite different ways.  gregor converted his success at work - position: 1
they took the money with gratitude and he was glad to provide it, - position: 4
there was still some money available from the old days.  it was not - position: 5
money that gregor had been bringing home every month, keeping only a - position: 1
this surplus money to reduce his father's debt to his boss, and the - position: 3
this money, however, was certainly not enough to enable the family - position: 2
perhaps, one or two years, no more.  that's to say, it was money - position: 13
money to live on had to be earned.  his father was healthy but old, - position: 1
and earn money? she suffered from asthma and it was a strain for her - position: 3
sister have to go and earn money? she was still a child of - position: 7
violin.  whenever they began to talk of the need to earn money, - position: 12
- you provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies - position: 8
money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the - position: 1
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a - position: 6

excitedly:
lock!"  and with the idea that they were all excitedly following his - position: 10
their arms like he had, tugged excitedly at their beards and moved - position: 7

lines:
following the lines of music with a careful and melancholy - position: 3

possession:
all copies of project gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession. - position: 10

cover:
sections.  the bedding was hardly able to cover it and seemed ready - position: 8

sighing:
earlier, but when he lay there sighing, and was once more watching - position: 7

carefree:
in his hand and a carefree smile on his face as he called forth - position: 6

vanilla:
"plain vanilla ascii" or other format used in the official version - position: 2
request, of the work in its original "plain vanilla ascii" or other - position: 9

hazard:
sign of a serious cold, which was an occupational hazard for - position: 10

remain:
to remain made him feel uneasy as he lay there flat on the floor, - position: 2
time being he must remain calm, he must show patience and the - position: 5
death, and he would remain immobile for hours afterwards. - position: 5
remain freely available for generations to come.  in 2001, the project - position: 1

lower:
raising a heavy fur muff that covered the whole of her lower arm - position: 12
the first thing he wanted to do was get the lower part of his body - position: 11
out of the bed, but he had never seen this lower part, and could not - position: 11
gather, he chose the wrong direction, hit hard against the lower - position: 11
bedpost, and learned from the burning pain he felt that the lower - position: 12
stood there upright; the lower part of his body was in serious pain - position: 5
hurriedly pulled the sheet down lower over the couch and put more - position: 6

couch:
hurried under the couch.  it pressed down on his back a little, and - position: 4
away, but when she did notice him under the couch - he had to be - position: 10
gregor had pushed his head forward, right to the edge of the couch, - position: 13
couch, throw himself at his sister's feet and beg her for something - position: 1
hurried back under the couch.  but he needed great self-control to - position: 5
before gregor came out again from under the couch and stretched - position: 9
and noise making; he would stay under the couch shivering the whole - position: 9
himself under the couch, of course, but he had to wait until midday - position: 4
protruded from under the couch.  one day, in order to spare her even - position: 5
couch on his back and arranged it so that he was completely covered - position: 1
hurriedly pulled the sheet down lower over the couch and put more - position: 9
couch.  it was more than childish perversity, of course, or the - position: 1
of the room than gregor poked his head out from under the couch to - position: 13
backwards to the far end of the couch.  in his startlement, though, - position: 8
couch as if she had given up everything and stayed there immobile. - position: 1
and he lay flat on the couch, bitter and immobile.  but his mother - position: 7
her own free will; she would sit beside him on the couch with her - position: 12

exhausted:
we arrive back home exhausted from a trip, and that's when we feel - position: 5
gregor's sister was exhausted from going out to work, and looking - position: 4

duty:
as an enemy.  on the contrary, as a family there was a duty to - position: 13

http://pglaf.org/donate:
donations.  to donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate - position: 6

despite:
quite easily, and despite its breadth and its weight, the bulk of - position: 4
despite all the difficulty he was in, he could not suppress a smile - position: 1
dishevelled from bed despite the chief clerk's being there, looked - position: 4
across the room, despite the chilly weather, gregor's mother had - position: 4
gregor learned, to his pleasure, that despite all their misfortunes - position: 7
that he lived in charlottenstrasse, which was a quiet street despite - position: 11
enough to remind even his father that gregor, despite his current - position: 9
as a result of this it slowly became even shabbier despite the - position: 11
room where, despite her mothers raised and imploring hands, she - position: 3
do several times a day.  and despite this condition, he was not too - position: 7
collection.  despite these efforts, project gutenberg-tm electronic - position: 2

suppose:
six years i suppose - that's definitely what i'll do.  that's when - position: 4

second:
second time after everyone had eaten their meal at midday as his - position: 1
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to - position: 11
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  if the second copy - position: 12

executive:
chief executive and director - position: 2

key:
involved and then set himself to the task of turning the key in the - position: 12
teeth - how was he, then, to grasp the key? - but the lack of teeth - position: 9
he really was able to start the key turning, ignoring the fact that - position: 8
from his mouth, flowed over the key and dripped onto the floor. - position: 7
key."  gregor was greatly encouraged by this; but they all should - position: 1
efforts, he bit on the key with all his strength, paying no - position: 6
attention to the pain he was causing himself.  as the key turned - position: 11
upright with his mouth, and hung onto the key or pushed it down - position: 9
her, she hurried out again and even turned the key in the lock so - position: 10
the key in the lock as a sign to him that he should withdraw.  he - position: 2
as she turned the key in the lock she said loudly to her parents "at - position: 5

coma-like:
from his deep and coma-like sleep.  he would have woken soon - position: 5

mothers:
room where, despite her mothers raised and imploring hands, she - position: 5

consideration:
remind himself that calm consideration was much better than rushing - position: 5
greatest consideration so that his family could bear the - position: 2
use, and placed it beside them.  then, out of consideration for - position: 10
consideration for his parents, gregor wanted to avoid being seen at - position: 1
consideration for him that made it difficult for them to move, it - position: 1

burning:
bedpost, and learned from the burning pain he felt that the lower - position: 6

ate:
although that was not so much bother as no-one ate very much. - position: 10
the family themselves ate in the kitchen.  nonetheless, gregor's - position: 4
then, once they were alone, they ate in near perfect silence.  it - position: 7

calm:
remind himself that calm consideration was much better than rushing - position: 4
thought i knew you as a calm and sensible person, and now you - position: 7
have kept calm, "i'll get dressed straight away now, pack up my - position: 3
time being he must remain calm, he must show patience and the - position: 6
only because her mother was there, she remained calm, bent her face - position: 9
that meant gregor would now have to try to calm his father, as he - position: 10
to think it more important to calm the three gentlemen before - position: 7

calmly:
calmly he would still have no reason to be upset, and if he hurried - position: 1
round again, and she calmly put the chair back in the corner. - position: 5
the music and his sister with the violin.  she calmly prepared - position: 10

sounded:
exclaim a loud "oh!", which sounded like the soughing of the wind. - position: 6
had been nothing in the way; it sounded to gregor as if there was - position: 8

sometimes:
gregor's mother, and sometimes to his sister, but there was now not - position: 4
becoming fully used to the situation - that gregor would sometimes - position: 10
would sometimes ask his father whether he would like a beer, hoping - position: 2
sometimes his father would wake up and say to gregor's mother - position: 1
gregor hardly slept at all, either night or day.  sometimes he would - position: 10
the gentlemen who rented the room would sometimes take their evening - position: 8
sometimes to stop and take a rest.  no-one was making him rush any - position: 1

somewhere:
didn't you want to go somewhere?"  that gentle voice! gregor was - position: 6
somewhere, for god's sake, he couldn't have flown away - she was so - position: 1
she wanted to take her mother somewhere safe and then chase him down - position: 7
unless gregor made his way through the junk and moved it somewhere - position: 12

removed:
has been removed, he will certainly work with all the more diligence - position: 3
should be removed; everything had to stay; he could not do without - position: 3
are removed.  of course, we hope that you will support the project - position: 2
1.e.  unless you have removed all references to project gutenberg: - position: 5

leant:
so gregor did not go into the room, but leant against the inside of - position: 10
which he leant over to one side as he peered out at the others. - position: 3
pulled open a window, leant far out of it and pressed her hands to - position: 5
so, while the women were leant against the desk in the other room - position: 6
the others, and now they leant back in their chairs reading them and - position: 6
their own chairs; his father leant against the door with his right - position: 6
was playing so beautifully.  her face was leant to one side, - position: 8
sunshine, all to themselves.  leant back comfortably on their seats, - position: 5

care:
care to do this not too loudly as even this might well sound - position: 1

clear:
parents and of your employer, and really must request a clear and - position: 11
understand his words any more, although they seemed clear enough to - position: 9
make his voice as clear as possible, he coughed a little, but taking - position: 5
again with the whole weight of his body as needed.  the clear sound - position: 12
they went away together on tip-toe.  it was clear that no-one would - position: 9
gregor's mother to let her go without delay.  it was not very clear - position: 13
was take it off again, as it was clear enough that it was no - position: 9
must have made everything clear to him.  she answered him with - position: 5
wouldn't listen, would you."  it was clear to gregor that grete had - position: 7
become a little annoyed, and it was not clear whether it was his - position: 9
clear that she was not to.  so, as she was prevented from telling - position: 1

transform:
wanted to transform his room into a cave, a warm room fitted out - position: 3

dampness:
water to do it - although that much dampness also made gregor ill - position: 8

muff:
raising a heavy fur muff that covered the whole of her lower arm - position: 5

hungry:
herself he would rather go hungry than draw her attention to it, - position: 6
even if he was not hungry.  gregor's sister no longer thought about - position: 6

jewellery:
hoped for, that several items of jewellery belonging to the family - position: 7

declare:
thereby brought gregor's father to a halt.  "i declare here and - position: 9

countless:
each step his father took he had to carry out countless movements. - position: 11

flew:
her face.  a strong draught of air flew in from the street towards - position: 8
the stairway, the curtains flew up, the newspapers on the table - position: 5
protrusions - then, right beside him, lightly tossed, something flew - position: 9
immediately flew at him; gregor froze in shock; there was no longer - position: 2
dust that lay everywhere in his room and flew up at the slightest - position: 9
pillows and covers on the beds flew up and were put into order and - position: 7

poor:
from poor people, gregor's father brought bank employees their - position: 2

supported:
peace i get in my old age!"  and supported by the two women he would - position: 9

law:
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be - position: 1
the applicable state law.  the invalidity or unenforceability of any - position: 4

whistled:
whistled to herself, but did not waste time to yank open the bedroom - position: 1

behalf:
a way that is quite unheard of.  i'm speaking here on behalf of your - position: 12
whatsoever to intercede on your behalf.  and nor is your position - position: 6

added:
convinced that he did not understand her words, she added "and by - position: 10

lasted:
she would strain herself.  this lasted a very long time.  after - position: 6

nostrils:
completely, and his last breath flowed weakly from his nostrils. - position: 10

playing:
joining in with a few modest pleasures and most of all playing the - position: 12
smoking.  when the violin began playing they became attentive, stood - position: 6
the kitchen, as gregor's father called out: "is the playing perhaps - position: 10
everything for her to begin playing; his parents, who had never - position: 6
playing, gregor had dared to come forward a little and already had - position: 1
the violin playing; at first, the three gentlemen had put their - position: 3
entertaining violin playing but had been disappointed, that they had - position: 3
was playing so beautifully.  her face was leant to one side, - position: 2
playing here as much as he would.  he never wanted to let her out of - position: 1
seemed to think gregor was more entertaining than the violin playing - position: 11
had overcome the despair she had fallen into when her playing was - position: 11
still playing, but then she suddenly pulled herself together, lay - position: 2
playing the martyr; she attributed all possible understanding to - position: 1

grounds:
grounds for such an action."  he was silent and looked straight - position: 1

beings:
possible for human beings to live with an animal like that and he - position: 4

produce:
archive foundation, how to help produce our new ebooks, and how to - position: 6

double-chin:
of the coat his strong double-chin emerged; under the bushy - position: 6

dry-eyed:
dry-eyed at the table. - position: 1

pot:
to notice that the coffee pot had been knocked over and a gush of - position: 6

david:
translated by david wyllie. - position: 3
translator: david wyllie - position: 2
copyright (c) 2002 david wyllie. - position: 4
translated by david wyllie - position: 3
translated by david wyllie. - position: 3

mother's:
chief clerk, with a calmness that was in contrast with his mother's - position: 12
part of the work for herself and ignoring her mother's warnings that - position: 10
mother's advice now was sufficient reason for her to insist on - position: 1
little.  it was enough to attract his mother's attention.  she stood - position: 8
subdued voice, and openly pressed her face into his chest: "mother's - position: 11
the instrument on her mother's lap who still sat laboriously - position: 5
when the violin on his mother's lap fell from her trembling fingers - position: 6

merely:
turned his head his father merely stamped his foot all the harder. - position: 6
to get through.  he was merely fixed on the idea that gregor should - position: 6
become excited merely because she was and stood up half raising his - position: 3
mr. samsa for his decision.  mr. samsa merely opened his eyes wide - position: 8

thrown:
been thrown down by chance.  gregor also refrained, this time, from - position: 2
thrown without much force glanced against gregor's back and slid off - position: 1
they were left where they landed when they had first been thrown - position: 12

1.f:
1.f. - position: 1

1.f.2:
1.f.2.  limited warranty, disclaimer of damages - except for the "right - position: 1

hit:
gather, he chose the wrong direction, hit hard against the lower - position: 7
head carefully enough, though, and hit it as he fell; annoyed and in - position: 6
falling, now throwing down large, individual droplets which hit the - position: 9
it, hit squarely and lodged in his back; gregor wanted to drag - position: 2

structure:
structure that made her able to withstand the hardest of things in - position: 1

translator:
translator: david wyllie - position: 1

restrictions:
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  you may copy it, give it away or - position: 3
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  you may copy it, give it away or - position: 3

understood:
be understood, he let go of the door; pushed himself through the - position: 2
help, his appeals were simply not understood, however much he humbly - position: 7
her and which everyone in the family understood - cleaning up - position: 8

mumbled:
the gentlemen stood as one, and mumbled something into their beards. - position: 7

lost:
they had so much to worry about at present that they had lost sight - position: 13
about this reading, but maybe his father had lost the habit in - position: 9
shocked that she lost control of herself and slammed the door shut - position: 4
around him, uniting herself with him totally - now gregor lost his - position: 10
because of his injuries, gregor had lost much of his mobility - - position: 7
more that the samsa family lost interest in them; when a butcher's - position: 6

weak:
and perhaps also because he was weak from hunger, made it impossible - position: 7
could not understand how he had covered that distance in his weak - position: 12

apply:
set forth in the general terms of use part of this license, apply to - position: 13

woke:
one morning, when gregor samsa woke from troubled dreams, he found - position: 6
light sleep, although he frequently woke from it in alarm because of - position: 6

mentioned:
mentioned as a lovely dream that could never be realised.  their - position: 1

briefly:
slightly every evening and morning and look briefly in on him.  at - position: 8
- here he looked briefly but decisively at the floor - "i give - position: 4
his good intention and had only been alarmed briefly.  now they all - position: 9
and briefly nodded to him several times.  at that, and without - position: 2

attention:
but he no longer gave any attention to it.  now he let himself fall - position: 7
attention to the pain he was causing himself.  as the key turned - position: 1
pay attention to anything else, when he heard the chief clerk - position: 2
herself he would rather go hungry than draw her attention to it, - position: 10
little.  it was enough to attract his mother's attention.  she stood - position: 9
not knowing what he should save first before his attention was - position: 10
of crawling about, he had neglected to pay attention to what was - position: 9
give more attention to gregor than was absolutely necessary? the - position: 3
again, a cashier from a hat shop for whom his attention had been - position: 11
the lack of attention he was shown, and although he could think of - position: 4
his sister began to play; father and mother paid close attention, - position: 11
sister to gain their attention too, "that with regard to the - position: 5
the floor with no resistance at all did she start to pay attention. - position: 13
bit of attention". the two women immediately did as he said, - position: 3

regular:
hospital - could be seen quite clearly with the austere and regular - position: 11

white:
white spots which he didn't know what to make of; and when he tried - position: 1
he lay at an angle in the doorway, one flank scraped on the white - position: 14
sweetened milk with little pieces of white bread floating in it.  he - position: 7
from the evening meal, covered in white sauce that had gone hard; a - position: 7
normally unkempt white hair was combed down painfully close to his - position: 3
an enormous, thick-boned charwoman with white hair that flapped - position: 6
inflamed area around it, which was entirely covered in white dust. - position: 10

peering:
full beards, as gregor learned peering through the crack in the door - position: 6

piece:
an authority for the other two, did indeed cut off a piece of meat - position: 12

providing:
or charges.  if you are redistributing or providing access to a work - position: 8
1.e.8.  you may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing - position: 12
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to - position: 1
providing copies of project gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance - position: 1

staying:
think you can get over an illness without staying at home.  please, - position: 9
staying longer at the table, even though he regularly fell asleep - position: 1

confident:
situation had been confident and wise, and that made him feel - position: 4

maybe:
boss; i'd get kicked out on the spot.  but who knows, maybe that - position: 12
of these things.  maybe you haven't read the latest contracts i sent - position: 4
about this reading, but maybe his father had lost the habit in - position: 5
that maybe it would be better if his mother came in, not every day - position: 2
quiet, maybe that was a good sign.  then there was someone at the - position: 2
as introduction, "we can't carry on like this.  maybe you can't see - position: 9
"maybe now they'll let me turn round", thought gregor and went back - position: 1

entered:
unpleasant for him, now, whenever she entered the room.  no sooner - position: 7

entombed:
there entombed in his bed when gregor came back from his business - position: 2

unsuccessfully:
gregor often heard how one of them would unsuccessfully urge another - position: 9

warranty:
1.f.2.  limited warranty, disclaimer of damages - except for the "right - position: 3
liability, breach of warranty or breach of contract except those - position: 4

salt:
butter and salt.  as well as all that she had poured some water into - position: 3
809 north 1500 west, salt lake city, ut 84116, (801) 596-1887, email - position: 5

opinion:
this deterioration in his condition was fully (in his opinion) made - position: 10

along:
only half of his body could be seen, along with his head above it - position: 9
(the chief clerk had left it behind on a chair, along with his hat - position: 11
by himself, the little legs along one side hung quivering in the air - position: 6
only one of them had been - and dragged along lifelessly. - position: 9
lack of any direct human communication, along with the monotonous - position: 7

impatient:
his father would become impatient, and there was the threat of a - position: 5

wink:
wink but scratching at the leather for hours on end.  or he might go - position: 1

cold:
because as soon as he touched it he was overcome by a cold shudder. - position: 13
sign of a serious cold, which was an occupational hazard for - position: 5
cold, she would stay at the window breathing deeply for a little - position: 1

refrained:
been thrown down by chance.  gregor also refrained, this time, from - position: 8

***:
*** start of this project gutenberg ebook metamorphosis *** - position: 1
*** start of this project gutenberg ebook metamorphosis *** - position: 9
*** end of this project gutenberg ebook metamorphosis *** - position: 1
*** end of this project gutenberg ebook metamorphosis *** - position: 9
*** start: full license *** - position: 1
*** start: full license *** - position: 5

creation:
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and - position: 3

set:
character set encoding: ascii - position: 2
could see from the bed that it had been set for four o'clock as it - position: 10
what he wanted with that leg, all the others seemed to be set free - position: 13
set himself to the task of swinging the entire length of his body - position: 1
in.  i'll set off with the eight o'clock train, as well, these few - position: 3
involved and then set himself to the task of turning the key in the - position: 4
samples and set off.  will you please just let me leave? you can - position: 3
flow of coffee.  that set his mother screaming anew, she fled from - position: 5
the dish, which had probably been permanently set aside for gregor's - position: 8
that should not really be touched but set aside for emergencies; - position: 8
set in front of them as if they wanted to test the food before - position: 1
from you, and believe me it would be very easy to set out the - position: 12
set forth in the general terms of use part of this license, apply to - position: 1
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.e.8. - position: 9
imposed by the copyright holder on this work are set forth at the - position: 10
project gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.e.8 or - position: 5
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.e.1 with - position: 5
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set - position: 12
foundation as set forth in section 3 below. - position: 3
1.f.4.  except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth - position: 11
if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the - position: 6

apples:
after another.  these little, red apples rolled about on the floor, - position: 6

lie:
he would often lie there the whole night through, not sleeping a - position: 4
not give him much room to crawl about, it was hard to just lie - position: 14

following:
lock!"  and with the idea that they were all excitedly following his - position: 11
without doing any harm.  another one however, immediately following - position: 9
following the lines of music with a careful and melancholy - position: 1
1.e.1.  the following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate - position: 3
must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you - position: 7
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do - position: 10

modified:
research.  they may be modified and printed and given away--you may do - position: 5

ave:
'ave a look at this, it's dead, just lying there, stone dead!" - position: 1

saddened:
the opposite; the sight of the bare walls saddened her right to her - position: 9

50:
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the united - position: 7

stairway:
the stairway as if out there, there were some supernatural force - position: 2
the stairway, the curtains flew up, the newspapers on the table - position: 2

lived:
that he lived in charlottenstrasse, which was a quiet street despite - position: 3
his room, not while he lived, anyway; his shocking appearance - position: 6

lake:
809 north 1500 west, salt lake city, ut 84116, (801) 596-1887, email - position: 6

reason:
your employer did suggest a possible reason for your failure to - position: 7
reason i don't see why your parents should not also learn of it. - position: 1
calmly he would still have no reason to be upset, and if he hurried - position: 7
just prejudice but they have no particular reason to think better of - position: 8
his life.  for some reason, the tall, empty room where he was forced - position: 5
no longer had any particular reason to be shocked at his appearance, - position: 6
idea, not without reason, that she was gregor's spokesman to his - position: 4
mother's advice now was sufficient reason for her to insist on - position: 6
instead of letting her disturb him for no reason whenever she felt - position: 9
own furnishings and equipment with them.  for this reason, many - position: 9
all the more reason to keep himself hidden as he was covered in the - position: 4
them out onto the landing; but they had had no reason to mistrust - position: 11

lurched:
lungs had not been very reliable.  now, as he lurched about in his - position: 10

favour:
quarrel which could only end in their favour.  "i mean just what i - position: 8

immediately:
condemned to work for a company where they immediately became highly - position: 9
the excitement, "i'll open up immediately, just a moment.  i'm - position: 6
and the two girls, their skirts swishing, immediately ran out - position: 8
gregor fell immediately over and, with a little scream as he sought - position: 3
had been that morning, and immediately dipped his head into the - position: 6
immediately by the door, resolved either to bring the timorous - position: 1
immediately at ease and his only regret was that his body was too - position: 1
good to eat.  however, his sister noticed the full dish immediately - position: 11
some surprise.  she immediately picked it up - using a rag, - position: 4
already sucking greedily at the cheese which had immediately, almost - position: 9
was immediately startled, although he had been half asleep, and he - position: 2
difficult for her to immediately open the window while he was still - position: 5
immediately flew at him; gregor froze in shock; there was no longer - position: 1
without doing any harm.  another one however, immediately following - position: 8
up their knives and forks.  gregor's mother immediately appeared in - position: 8
bit of attention". the two women immediately did as he said, - position: 7

paper:
reads the paper or studies train timetables.  his idea of relaxation - position: 3
be sat with his evening paper, reading it out in a loud voice to - position: 6
keep ebooks in compliance with any particular paper edition. - position: 8

tenants:
respect he owed to his tenants.  he urged them and pressed them - position: 6
driven out our tenants, it obviously wants to take over the whole - position: 4

upset:
him upset than through any proper decision, he swang himself with - position: 2
calmly he would still have no reason to be upset, and if he hurried - position: 10
driving gregor out, even though they were not at all upset and - position: 11

christmas:
planned with a grand announcement of it on christmas day. - position: 9
it last christmas - had christmas really come and gone already? - if - position: 3
it last christmas - had christmas really come and gone already? - if - position: 5

provided:
access to or distributing project gutenberg-tm electronic works provided - position: 9
provided in paragraph f3.  you agree that the foundation, the - position: 1
your written explanation.  the person or entity that provided you with - position: 9
in paragraph 1.f.3, this work is provided to you 'as-is,' with no other - position: 7

empty:
his life.  for some reason, the tall, empty room where he was forced - position: 8
it was out of the question to leave the flat entirely empty.  and on - position: 12
him feel abandoned to be in an empty room like that.  then, quietly, - position: 8
sister.  he remained in this state of empty and peaceful rumination - position: 8

begin:
everything for her to begin playing; his parents, who had never - position: 5
his sister.  all he had done was begin to turn round so that he - position: 8

meat:
the doorway with a dish of meat and soon behind her came his sister - position: 7
an authority for the other two, did indeed cut off a piece of meat - position: 14

realise:
was, realise that it was not from any lack of hunger and bring him - position: 2
usual.  it made him realise that she still found his appearance - position: 5
hearing these words from his mother made gregor realise that the - position: 9

many:
to slide off any moment.  his many legs, pitifully thin compared - position: 7
that no-one was ever ill but that many were workshy.  and what's - position: 8
that they had no room for anywhere else, and there were now many - position: 13
own furnishings and equipment with them.  for this reason, many - position: 10
the three gentlemen made slow but steady progress down the many - position: 11
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  many small donations - position: 7
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up - position: 6

rid:
can say is: we have to try and get rid of it.  we've done all that's - position: 10
"we have to try and get rid of it", said gregor's sister, now - position: 7
you've got to get rid of the idea that that's gregor.  we've only - position: 5
in there, you needn't worry about how you're going to get rid of it. - position: 12

reads:
reads the paper or studies train timetables.  his idea of relaxation - position: 1

regained:
his concentration, and as he regained his breath he said to himself: - position: 6

placed:
use, and placed it beside them.  then, out of consideration for - position: 3
the chair where the gentleman happened to have placed it - out of - position: 9

belonging:
hoped for, that several items of jewellery belonging to the family - position: 8

conditions:
repugnant conditions that prevail in this flat and with this family" - position: 2

http://pglaf.org:
page at http://pglaf.org - position: 3
particular state visit http://pglaf.org - position: 4

terms:
re-use it under the terms of the project gutenberg license included - position: 5
set forth in the general terms of use part of this license, apply to - position: 6
gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the full project - position: 9
section 1.  general terms of use and redistributing project gutenberg-tm - position: 4
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property - position: 5
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy - position: 2
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or - position: 1
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  there are a few - position: 7
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  see - position: 7
gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement - position: 8
freely sharing project gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of - position: 10
the work.  you can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by - position: 9
the copyright owner for this particular work and the terms of use - position: 10
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement - position: 10
re-use it under the terms of the project gutenberg license included - position: 5
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  additional terms will be linked - position: 1
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  additional terms will be linked - position: 8
license terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this - position: 2
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the project - position: 9
does not agree to the terms of the full project gutenberg-tm - position: 6
- you comply with all other terms of this agreement for free - position: 6
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set - position: 9

forks:
up their knives and forks.  gregor's mother immediately appeared in - position: 5

draw:
herself he would rather go hungry than draw her attention to it, - position: 8
while his mother tried to draw his father, who was beside himself - position: 6

soon:
because as soon as he touched it he was overcome by a cold shudder. - position: 3
their expectations was still at home, and soon his father came - position: 8
decision very soon.  then there was a ring at the door of the flat. - position: 3
how nice it is; it's hanging up in his room; you'll see it as soon - position: 15
i'll be in the office soon after you, and please be so good as to - position: 6
but the chief clerk had turned away as soon as gregor had started to - position: 9
he was soon believing that all his sorrows would soon be finally at - position: 3
he was soon believing that all his sorrows would soon be finally at - position: 10
soon he was stuck fast and would not have been able to move at all - position: 1
from his deep and coma-like sleep.  he would have woken soon - position: 11
milk, nearly covering his eyes with it.  but he soon drew his head - position: 10
gregor soon had the opportunity to test the strength of his - position: 2
gregor's room while his sister tidied up in there, and as soon as - position: 12
his mother also wanted to go in and visit gregor relatively soon but - position: 12
gregor's wish to see his mother was soon realised.  out of - position: 8
quietly through the night, his food soon stopped giving him any - position: 7
great as that, caused himself no damage.  very soon his sister - position: 9
already looked uneasy in his room, she soon stopped speaking and - position: 8
all, but he soon had to admit that the women going to and fro, their - position: 4
soon; grete had put her arm around her mother and was nearly - position: 1
all of them were usually very quiet nowadays.  soon after dinner, - position: 9
as soon as it struck ten, gregor's mother would speak gently to his - position: 2
stopped him eating, but he had soon got used to the changes made - position: 7
the doorway with a dish of meat and soon behind her came his sister - position: 9
gregor's father soon appeared with the music stand, his mother with - position: 3
disturbed gregor's sister, but soon, in contrast with the family, - position: 5
more, everything was left up to him.  as soon as he had finally - position: 9
darkness.  he soon made the discovery that he could no longer move - position: 3
she soon realised what had really happened, opened her eyes wide, - position: 2
it they agreed that it would soon be time to find a good man for - position: 7
intentions, as soon as they reached their destination grete was the - position: 3

content:
thought that he could understand them, so he had to be content to - position: 12

pulled:
pulled open a window, leant far out of it and pressed her hands to - position: 1
hurriedly pulled the sheet down lower over the couch and put more - position: 2
from all sides.  with his head and legs pulled in against him and - position: 9
he saw was the door of his room being pulled open, his sister was - position: 10
still playing, but then she suddenly pulled herself together, lay - position: 7

imagination:
out to be pure imagination and he wondered how his imaginings would - position: 5

emphatically:
emphatically not to tell anyone the slightest about what had - position: 1

punitive:
liable to you for actual, direct, indirect, consequential, punitive or - position: 9

earnest:
three gentlemen.  these earnest gentlemen - all three of them had - position: 4

taxes:
you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  the fee is - position: 8

start:
*** start of this project gutenberg ebook metamorphosis *** - position: 2
he really was able to start the key turning, ignoring the fact that - position: 6
door and he would pull it up again with a start, as even the - position: 11
superior even here.  the uniform had not been new to start with, but - position: 11
the floor with no resistance at all did she start to pay attention. - position: 10
writing;  mr. samsa saw that the cleaner wanted to start describing - position: 10
*** start: full license *** - position: 2
most people start at our web site which has the main pg search facility: - position: 3

throw:
it was a simple matter to throw off the covers; he only had to blow - position: 7
couch, throw himself at his sister's feet and beg her for something - position: 2
gregor would always first let go of the door and then throw himself - position: 12
on by himself while gregor's mother would throw down her needle and - position: 8
throw everything out in one go, but what actually happened was that - position: 1

stick:
gregor's father seized the chief clerk's stick in his right hand - position: 7
lethal blow to his back or head from the stick in his father's hand - position: 10
now and then he used the tip of his stick to give directions from a - position: 10
stick, then, finally, all was quiet. - position: 1
slowly for his sake; who would place his stick down carefully and, - position: 9

understand:
"did you understand a word of all that?" the chief clerk asked his - position: 3
understand his words any more, although they seemed clear enough to - position: 1
understand very well; over the years, they had become convinced that - position: 1
flat.  as nobody could understand him, nobody, not even his sister, - position: 5
thought that he could understand them, so he had to be content to - position: 5
understand everything the first time.  from these repeated explanations - position: 1
understand i have to see him?", and gregor would think to himself - position: 1
of course, but one day a week, perhaps; she could understand - position: 11
convinced that he did not understand her words, she added "and by - position: 6
"if he could just understand us", said his father almost as a - position: 5
"if he could just understand us", repeated gregor's father, closing - position: 5
could not understand how he had covered that distance in his weak - position: 3
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to - position: 9

beyond:
which was totally beyond gregor's comprehension, his sister even - position: 4

gleeful:
continually rubbed them together in gleeful anticipation of a loud - position: 6

ones:
course, the ones that gregor always thought about with longing when - position: 3

discover:
1.f.3.  limited right of replacement or refund - if you discover a - position: 10

carpet:
probably nothing would happen to it falling onto the carpet.  his - position: 10
really a loud noise.  his fall was softened a little by the carpet, - position: 13
pain, he turned it and rubbed it against the carpet. - position: 10
there on the carpet, and no-one who knew the condition he was in - position: 4
coffee was pouring down onto the carpet. - position: 7
lay on his back and wipe himself on the carpet like he had used to - position: 10

smaller:
household budget became even smaller; so now the maid was dismissed; - position: 5
smaller and cheaper than the current one which had been chosen by - position: 1

royalties:
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  special rules, - position: 6
has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the - position: 5

enquiries:
to let one of the trainees make enquiries - assuming enquiries were - position: 8
to let one of the trainees make enquiries - assuming enquiries were - position: 10

entertain:
pleasure at all, and so, to entertain himself, he got into the habit - position: 7

unlike:
gregor only remained close to his sister now.  unlike him, she was - position: 9
unlike anything experienced by anyone else they knew or were related - position: 1

threatened:
threatened her and tried to bite her.  gregor went straight to hide - position: 1
now they threatened to remove the writing desk with its place - position: 3

practical:
practical.  all the time, grete was becoming livelier.  with all the - position: 1

hypertext:
word processing or hypertext form.  however, if you provide access to or - position: 4

fluid:
he must have been causing some kind of damage as a brown fluid came - position: 13

wish:
your incomprehensible stubbornness i no longer feel any wish - position: 9
gregor's wish to see his mother was soon realised.  out of - position: 2
sold, the family did not wish to discard.  all these things found - position: 6
1.e.9.  if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a project gutenberg-tm - position: 4

staggered:
gregor's father staggered back to his seat, feeling his way with his - position: 3

sat:
a lady fitted out with a fur hat and fur boa who sat upright, - position: 13
quiet in the next room.  perhaps his parents were sat at the table - position: 10
stretch it out for several hours as he sat reading a number of - position: 9
breakfast things on it; when she reached the table she sat quickly - position: 11
be sat with his evening paper, reading it out in a loud voice to - position: 2
from the wall.  well, she could certainly try it! he sat unyielding - position: 11
they sat up at the table where, formerly, gregor had taken his meals - position: 2
though, was offered a seat by one of the gentlemen and sat - leaving - position: 12
the instrument on her mother's lap who still sat laboriously - position: 9
definite ideas.  he sat upright, played with his uniform cap between - position: 4
nearly closed with exhaustion; his sister sat next to his father - position: 7
mr. and  mrs. samsa sat upright there in their marriage bed and had - position: 5
they were in serious need of it.  so they sat at the table and wrote - position: 10
other.  mr. samsa twisted round in his chair to look at them and sat - position: 14

charge:
charge for the ebooks, unless you receive specific permission.  if you - position: 1
do not charge anything for copies of this ebook, complying with the - position: 3
gutenberg-tm license when you share it without charge with others. - position: 8
1.e.7.  do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying, - position: 4
1.e.8.  you may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing - position: 4
1.e.9.  if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a project gutenberg-tm - position: 6

attack:
slightly unwell, an attack of dizziness, i haven't been able to get - position: 4
was like a kind of attack.  instead of being afraid, the charwoman - position: 6

answered:
"gregor? aren't you well? do you need anything?"  gregor answered to - position: 10
must have made everything clear to him.  she answered him with - position: 9
said", answered  mr. samsa, and, with his two companions, went in a - position: 2
respect for.  "yes", she answered, and broke into a friendly laugh - position: 5

quiet:
they danced around.  for a moment everything remained quiet. - position: 9
quiet so that he could listen to what the chief clerk was saying. - position: 1
quiet in the next room.  perhaps his parents were sat at the table - position: 1
stick, then, finally, all was quiet. - position: 6
recent times.  it was so quiet all around too, even though there - position: 6
must have been somebody in the flat.  "what a quiet life it is the - position: 10
that he lived in charlottenstrasse, which was a quiet street despite - position: 9
quiet, maybe that was a good sign.  then there was someone at the - position: 1
all of them were usually very quiet nowadays.  soon after dinner, - position: 7
would urge each other to be quiet; his mother, bent deeply under the - position: 7

softened:
really a loud noise.  his fall was softened a little by the carpet, - position: 8

swinging:
set himself to the task of swinging the entire length of his body - position: 7

no-one:
that no-one was ever ill but that many were workshy.  and what's - position: 2
there on the carpet, and no-one who knew the condition he was in - position: 6
during the day, no-one came, and the keys were in the other sides. - position: 4
they went away together on tip-toe.  it was clear that no-one would - position: 11
happened, even though no-one had asked that of her. - position: 4
although that was not so much bother as no-one ate very much. - position: 9
or something similar.  no-one drank very much either.  his sister - position: 4
precaution so that no-one would have to suffer the view into - position: 4
certainly be taken away by no-one.  he turned his head to face the - position: 6
no-one dared to remove the apple lodged in gregor's flesh, so it - position: 1
anger that no-one had even thought of closing the door to save him - position: 3
by surprise, no-one was chasing him but he began to rush to and fro - position: 3
no-one noticed him, though.  the family was totally preoccupied with - position: 1
come into his room with her violin, as no-one appreciated her - position: 9
sometimes to stop and take a rest.  no-one was making him rush any - position: 8

shrugged:
his sister just shrugged her shoulders as a sign of the helplessness - position: 4

royalty:
- you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from - position: 4
project gutenberg literary archive foundation.  royalty payments - position: 6
returns.  royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and - position: 2

preoccupied:
no-one noticed him, though.  the family was totally preoccupied with - position: 9

steaming:
with a dish piled high with potatoes.  the food was steaming, and - position: 11

boss:
boss; i'd get kicked out on the spot.  but who knows, maybe that - position: 1
gone up to the boss and told him just what i think, tell him - position: 5
especially when you have to go right up close because the boss is - position: 12
service gregor had never once yet been ill.  his boss would - position: 10
that happened his boss would once more pursue their parents with the - position: 4
tell that to the boss and recommend me to him!" - position: 5
than the boss himself - it's very easy for a businessman like him to - position: 3
this surplus money to reduce his father's debt to his boss, and the - position: 11
next time the door was opened; he had long forgotten about his boss - position: 13

begun:
only just got up and had not even begun to get dressed.  and why was - position: 9

doctor's:
doctor's recommendation not to make any claim as the doctor believed - position: 1

complicated:
how he opened the complicated lock and then closed it again after he - position: 5

sunk:
they  withdrew back to the window with their heads sunk and talking - position: 10

exporting:
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon - position: 5

terrible:
although he did feel a terrible urge to rush forward from under the - position: 6

stop:
stop gregor's father as he drove him back, making hissing noises at - position: 1
distance as to which way to turn.  if only his father would stop - position: 13
if he wanted to say something would invariably stop and gather his - position: 9
unpleasant for the gentlemen? we can stop it straight away."  "on - position: 7
sometimes to stop and take a rest.  no-one was making him rush any - position: 3

disgust:
choice as he saw, to his disgust, that he was quite incapable of - position: 7

inseparably:
grey earth mingled inseparably.  his observant sister only needed to - position: 4

service:
service gregor had never once yet been ill.  his boss would - position: 1
if she had done her an enormous service.  she even swore - position: 8
revenue service.  the foundation's ein or federal tax identification - position: 2

unfortunately:
unfortunately, even the other side of the narrow street was - position: 1
unfortunately as you like, we simply have to overcome it because of - position: 1
lock with his mouth.  he seemed, unfortunately, to have no proper - position: 7
flight of the chief clerk seemed, unfortunately, to put gregor's - position: 7
his sister, unfortunately, did not agree; she had become used to the - position: 3
considerate as he could, but, unfortunately, it was his mother who - position: 6

mistrust:
them out onto the landing; but they had had no reason to mistrust - position: 13

press:
press his whole body against it.  there was seldom any conversation, - position: 1

behest:
behest of the customers, but they just did not have the strength to - position: 1

card:
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card - position: 9

glimpsed:
sheet where it was.  gregor even thought he glimpsed a look of - position: 9

sections:
sections.  the bedding was hardly able to cover it and seemed ready - position: 1
and how your efforts and donations can help, see sections 3 and 4 - position: 10

therefore:
rented a room out before and therefore showed an exaggerated - position: 7

60:
must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you - position: 5

trainees:
to let one of the trainees make enquiries - assuming enquiries were - position: 6

altogether:
getting weaker and weaker and would finally disappear altogether. - position: 9

broom:
broom and swept up the left-overs, mixing them in with the food he - position: 1
again with the broom, indifferent as to whether it had been eaten or - position: 4
him.  she happened to be holding the long broom in her hand, so she - position: 9
the broom, sending it sideways across the floor.  mrs. samsa made a - position: 2
movement as if she wanted to hold back the broom, but did not - position: 10

addition:
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement - position: 7

anything:
"gregor? aren't you well? do you need anything?"  gregor answered to - position: 8
pay attention to anything else, when he heard the chief clerk - position: 4
anything different, and gregor had never asked him about it anyway. - position: 1
were there anyway, as they were now too tired to say anything while - position: 12
without anything decisive happening, without even giving the - position: 2
ability to see anything - her hands behind his father's head begging - position: 4
unlike anything experienced by anyone else they knew or were related - position: 2
without his sister doing anything about it; she could see the dirt - position: 5
anything she couldn't use for the time being she would just chuck in - position: 1
not possible to perform anything with jaws that are toothless - position: 5
gregor anxiously, "but not anything like they're eating.  they do - position: 5
anyone could accuse us of doing anything wrong." - position: 7
"just look how thin he was.  he didn't eat anything for so long. - position: 10
he do anything to make them look away. - position: 3
do not charge anything for copies of this ebook, complying with the - position: 4
practically anything with public domain ebooks.  redistribution is - position: 2

editions:
updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions - position: 2
updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions - position: 9
creating the works from public domain print editions means that no - position: 8
editions, all of which are confirmed as public domain in the u.s. - position: 1

distributing:
copying and distributing project gutenberg-tm electronic works to - position: 3
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work - position: 8
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative - position: 2
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or - position: 6
performing, copying or distributing any project gutenberg-tm works - position: 4
access to or distributing project gutenberg-tm electronic works provided - position: 4
gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a project - position: 7

2001:
remain freely available for generations to come.  in 2001, the project - position: 9

peaceful:
peaceful. - position: 1
sister.  he remained in this state of empty and peaceful rumination - position: 10

arrived:
that grete would have to go and answer it.  his father had arrived - position: 13
went into one of the worst of these places when his sister arrived - position: 13
his sister arrived home in the evening than she noticed the change - position: 3
arrived and from then on it was impossible to sleep in peace - she - position: 1

wealth:
this peace and wealth and comfort should come to a horrible and - position: 4

1.f.6:
1.f.6.  indemnity - you agree to indemnify and hold the foundation, the - position: 1

family:
made the other members of the family aware that gregor, against - position: 7
they have to show the whole, innocent family that this was so - position: 8
intention of abandoning his family.  for the time being he just lay - position: 5
and finally won over; the future of gregor and his family depended - position: 11
family lead", said gregor to himself, and, gazing into the darkness, - position: 1
greatest consideration so that his family could bear the - position: 6
the family at home - nobody wanted to be at home by themselves and - position: 2
their business misfortune had reduced the family to a state of total - position: 7
benefit of his astonished and delighted family.  they had been good - position: 7
in a position to bear the costs of the whole family, and did bear - position: 11
them.  they had even got used to it, both gregor and the family, - position: 13
this money, however, was certainly not enough to enable the family - position: 11
life led by the family during these two months, must have made him - position: 5
sad and revolting form, was a family member who could not be treated - position: 7
as an enemy.  on the contrary, as a family there was a duty to - position: 9
family in the light of the dinner table and listen to their - position: 1
who, in this tired and overworked family, would have had time to - position: 7
hoped for, that several items of jewellery belonging to the family - position: 11
with a few air holes in it; the main thing holding the family back - position: 13
him and his family they were all of them inaccessible, and he was - position: 4
mood to look after his family, he was filled with simple rage about - position: 6
her and which everyone in the family understood - cleaning up - position: 7
sold, the family did not wish to discard.  all these things found - position: 3
the family having noticed it, lain in his room in its darkest - position: 2
the family themselves ate in the kitchen.  nonetheless, gregor's - position: 2
no-one noticed him, though.  the family was totally preoccupied with - position: 6
disturbed gregor's sister, but soon, in contrast with the family, - position: 10
repugnant conditions that prevail in this flat and with this family" - position: 11
there was not a word, not any cry, from his family to distract him. - position: 11
he thought back of his family with emotion and love.  if it was - position: 6
more that the samsa family lost interest in them; when a butcher's - position: 5

house:
instance, whenever i go back to the guest house during the morning - position: 9
easily by moving house; what they needed now was a flat that was - position: 4

offers:
approach us with offers to donate. - position: 4

stone:
'ave a look at this, it's dead, just lying there, stone dead!" - position: 11

nourishment:
nourishment he had been yearning for.  he was determined to make his - position: 1

glances:
possible and with frequent anxious glances at his father, to turn - position: 6

title:
title: metamorphosis - position: 1

around:
they danced around.  for a moment everything remained quiet. - position: 3
round he turned around the lock with it, only holding himself - position: 4
around one of the double doors, and he had to do it very carefully - position: 1
spread themselves out around her as her head disappeared down onto - position: 4
disappeared; his shouts resounding all around the staircase.  the - position: 6
recent times.  it was so quiet all around too, even though there - position: 8
and looked at it and the few drops of milk splashed around it with - position: 12
crawl around unimpeded in any direction, but it would also have let - position: 2
soon; grete had put her arm around her mother and was nearly - position: 7
looked around.  her eyes met those of gregor on the wall.  perhaps - position: 2
in his confusion as the whole room began to spin around him he fell - position: 11
he lay there for a while, numb and immobile, all around him it was - position: 11
companions around him.  he was standing up straight enough now; - position: 2
around him, uniting herself with him totally - now gregor lost his - position: 1
around her head came every morning and evening to do the heaviest - position: 1
with her arms around his neck. - position: 4
able to actually move around on those spindly little legs until then - position: 5
inflamed area around it, which was entirely covered in white dust. - position: 3
room.  they did so, and stood around gregor's corpse with their - position: 7
over to the window where they remained with their arms around each - position: 11

dipped:
had been that morning, and immediately dipped his head into the - position: 7

girls:
and the two girls, their skirts swishing, immediately ran out - position: 4
was of no use to him at all.  girls of that age, though, do become - position: 9

consider:
only then would he consider what to do next, as he was well aware - position: 5
achieved in the past and consider that later on, once the difficulty - position: 6
consider whether to proceed with some kind of action for damages - position: 1

junior:
vigour that raised him from a junior salesman to a travelling - position: 7

fall:
everything i would, let him know just what i feel.  he'd fall right - position: 12
fresh air it occurred to him that if he let himself fall it would be - position: 12
really a loud noise.  his fall was softened a little by the carpet, - position: 6
but he no longer gave any attention to it.  now he let himself fall - position: 14
if he did not want to fall flat on his back before entering the - position: 7
easily fall victim to gossip and chance and groundless complaints, - position: 2
continue listening, when his head would fall wearily against the - position: 7
better control of his body than before and, even with a fall as - position: 12

corrupt:
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual - position: 1

feared:
all this time on the floor, largely because he feared his father - position: 10

amount:
the large amount of sewing work she did.  gregor even learned, - position: 3

596-1887:
809 north 1500 west, salt lake city, ut 84116, (801) 596-1887, email - position: 11

glad:
as gregor opens the door.  anyway, i'm glad you're here; we wouldn't - position: 8
they took the money with gratitude and he was glad to provide it, - position: 10
mother until later and was simply glad that she had come.  "you can - position: 7
angry and glad at the same time.  gregor drew his head back from the - position: 3
glad when they disappeared.  other times he was not at all in the - position: 1

associated:
this and all associated files of various formats will be found in: - position: 4
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "project - position: 5
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who - position: 4
this agreement for keeping the project gutenberg-tm name associated with - position: 9
gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed, - position: 3
with the phrase "project gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the - position: 6
work or any other work associated with project gutenberg-tm. - position: 6
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production, - position: 7

convert:
1.e.6.  you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary, - position: 4

approach:
approach us with offers to donate. - position: 1

drew:
to feel the place with one of his legs he drew it quickly back - position: 11
movement, drew his foot from the living room, and rushed forward in - position: 2
milk, nearly covering his eyes with it.  but he soon drew his head - position: 11
angry and glad at the same time.  gregor drew his head back from the - position: 9

nodded:
behind the door, gregor nodded with enthusiasm in his pleasure at - position: 5
and briefly nodded to him several times.  at that, and without - position: 3
her work for that morning.  the three of them at first just nodded - position: 13

declared:
few raisins and almonds; some cheese that gregor had declared - position: 10

building:
grey-black building on the other side of the street - which was a - position: 2

absolutely:
give more attention to gregor than was absolutely necessary? the - position: 8
to.  they carried out absolutely everything that the world expects - position: 5
"she's absolutely right", said gregor's father to himself.  his - position: 2

reading:
stretch it out for several hours as he sat reading a number of - position: 10
be sat with his evening paper, reading it out in a loud voice to - position: 7
about this reading, but maybe his father had lost the habit in - position: 3
the others, and now they leant back in their chairs reading them and - position: 11
1.a.  by reading or using any part of this project gutenberg-tm - position: 3

brown:
see his brown belly, slightly domed and divided by arches into stiff - position: 3
he must have been causing some kind of damage as a brown fluid came - position: 12
door and was painfully injured, leaving vile brown flecks on it, - position: 8
one side, saw the enormous brown patch against the flowers of the - position: 6

itch:
slight itch up on his belly; pushed himself slowly up on his back - position: 2
where the itch was, and saw that it was covered with lots of little - position: 3

positions:
rearranging themselves into new positions.  "alright, we'll go - position: 5

meantime:
a lot, but it had not been touched in the meantime and some interest - position: 11

afraid:
a miracle if his head were not injured, so he became afraid to carry - position: 12
straight away, but he was afraid that if he took the time to do that - position: 6
was like a kind of attack.  instead of being afraid, the charwoman - position: 10

distress:
sister wanted to spare them what distress she could as they were - position: 7
first he thought it was distress at the state of his room that - position: 6

business@pglaf.org:
business@pglaf.org.  email contact links and up to date contact - position: 1

appeals:
foot at him as he went.  gregor's appeals to his father were of no - position: 8
help, his appeals were simply not understood, however much he humbly - position: 3
hear his sister's sighs and appeals to the saints as she moved about - position: 6

changing:
pain by changing his position; but he felt as if nailed to the spot - position: 3

references:
works based on the work as long as all references to project gutenberg - position: 10
1.e.  unless you have removed all references to project gutenberg: - position: 7

bottom:
put his hands in his trouser pockets, pushing back the bottom of his - position: 11

dishevelled:
dishevelled from bed despite the chief clerk's being there, looked - position: 1

uncertainly:
uncertainly round the living room, covered his eyes with his hands - position: 1

words:
it, the words could be made out at first but then there was a sort - position: 3
the visitor's first words of greeting and he knew who it was - the - position: 4
and while gregor gushed out these words, hardly knowing what he was - position: 7
understand his words any more, although they seemed clear enough to - position: 3
convinced that he did not understand her words, she added "and by - position: 8
hearing these words from his mother made gregor realise that the - position: 3
but grete's words had made her mother quite worried, she stepped to - position: 3
home.  "what's happened?" were his first words; grete's appearance - position: 7
first she would call to him as she did so with words that she - position: 12
pointing, without wasting any more words, with his forefinger at - position: 6
joined in with the words: "and we also give immediate notice."  with - position: 5
forehead.  her words seemed to give gregor's father some more - position: 3

urge:
an end.  he held back the urge to move but swayed from side to side - position: 7
although he did feel a terrible urge to rush forward from under the - position: 7
gregor often heard how one of them would unsuccessfully urge another - position: 10
overcome the urge to flee when she saw the little bit of him that - position: 3
would urge each other to be quiet; his mother, bent deeply under the - position: 2

turn:
open before he could be seen.  he had first to slowly turn himself - position: 12
been allowed to turn round he would have been back in his room - position: 4
possible and with frequent anxious glances at his father, to turn - position: 11
distance as to which way to turn.  if only his father would stop - position: 7
his sister would often turn to the conservatory but it was only ever - position: 5
for him to move.  he was sure that everyone would turn on him any - position: 11
his sister.  all he had done was begin to turn round so that he - position: 10
"maybe now they'll let me turn round", thought gregor and went back - position: 6
he did not turn his head until he had reached the doorway.  he did - position: 4
not turn it all the way round as he felt his neck becoming stiff, - position: 2

hundred:
must have tried it a hundred times, shut his eyes so that he - position: 6

usual:
feel completely well and even felt much hungrier than usual. - position: 10
she came into the room a little earlier than usual and found him - position: 10
usual.  it made him realise that she still found his appearance - position: 1
out for his usual evening nap but from the uncontrolled way his head - position: 4
made her usual brief look in on gregor and at first found nothing - position: 3

hung:
above it there hung a picture that he had recently cut out of an - position: 4
upright with his mouth, and hung onto the key or pushed it down - position: 6
by himself, the little legs along one side hung quivering in the air - position: 9
uniform off even at home; while his nightgown hung unused on its peg - position: 9

explain:
answer and explain everything, but in the circumstances contented - position: 3
did not have the time to explain things to him even if that had been - position: 7

blossoming:
blossoming into a well built and beautiful young lady.  they became - position: 1

death:
who, because of him, might be near to death; he could not open the - position: 9
death, and he would remain immobile for hours afterwards. - position: 1
coughing to listen, "it'll be the death of both of you, i can see it - position: 7

later:
hands were quietly moving forwards, it was even later than half - position: 9
found for it later on, it was not something for which gregor could - position: 4
achieved in the past and consider that later on, once the difficulty - position: 8
opened very slightly and hurriedly closed again; later on the door - position: 8
his room.  it was only later, when she had become a little more used - position: 6
splendour, even though gregor had later earned so much that he was - position: 6
listened very closely to all this, and approved fully.  later, - position: 10
mother until later and was simply glad that she had come.  "you can - position: 3
to help too - he could save his picture later, although he stuck - position: 9
so that she might be able to get a better position later on. - position: 12
he could crawl about, he was forced to, but later on he came to - position: 10
would reappear a few moments later; the further down they went, the - position: 6

dome:
only have to push their arms under the dome of his back, peel him - position: 9

sleeve:
sleeve, whisper endearments into his ear, gregor's sister would - position: 1

virus:
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by - position: 2

doorway:
front of the doorway, but then saw that it was too narrow, and his - position: 4
for getting through the doorway.  what he did, making more noise - position: 5
experience, and gregor pushed himself into the doorway without - position: 8
he lay at an angle in the doorway, one flank scraped on the white - position: 8
the doorway with a dish of meat and soon behind her came his sister - position: 2
he did not turn his head until he had reached the doorway.  he did - position: 12
tried to tickle gregor with it from the doorway.  when she had no - position: 9
the doorway with a smile on her face as if she had some tremendous - position: 2

hitting:
drops of rain could be heard hitting the pane, which made him feel - position: 7
"father, mother", said his sister, hitting the table with her hand - position: 6

reaching:
wanted to be sure of reaching him; the chief clerk must have - position: 6
assistance they need, is critical to reaching project gutenberg-tm's - position: 7

slumber:
gregor's father would slumber where he was, fully dressed, as if - position: 4

vegetables:
on an old newspaper.  there were old, half-rotten vegetables; bones - position: 9
pleasure, he consumed the cheese, the vegetables and the sauce; the - position: 7

twice:
notice the chair twice before she would always push it back to its - position: 4
while.  she would alarm gregor twice a day with this running about - position: 6

stayed:
stayed home every evening.  he sits with us in the kitchen and just - position: 1
stayed awake all that time, as they all could be distinctly heard as - position: 1
couch as if she had given up everything and stayed there immobile. - position: 10
as a reproach to her, but he could have stayed there for weeks - position: 10
to each other at half volume, and they stayed by the window while - position: 9

1.a:
1.a.  by reading or using any part of this project gutenberg-tm - position: 1

include:
form.  any alternate format must include the full project gutenberg-tm - position: 6

illustrated:
illustrated magazine and housed in a nice, gilded frame.  it showed - position: 1

considerable:
1.f.1.  project gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable - position: 8
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up - position: 1

collection:
between its four familiar walls.  a collection of textile samples - position: 7
the collection of samples was still not packed, and he did not at - position: 2
or pglaf), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of project - position: 9
collection are in the public domain in the united states.  if an - position: 1
collection.  despite these efforts, project gutenberg-tm electronic - position: 1
goals and ensuring that the project gutenberg-tm collection will - position: 8

withstand:
structure that made her able to withstand the hardest of things in - position: 7

variety:
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers - position: 9

earlier:
earlier, but when he lay there sighing, and was once more watching - position: 1
a month earlier he had cut his finger slightly with a knife, he - position: 3
his business when it had collapsed five years earlier.  gregor heard - position: 9
she came into the room a little earlier than usual and found him - position: 8
he became noticeably short of breath, even in his earlier life his - position: 10
they no longer held the lively conversations of earlier times, of - position: 9
and tears that had taken hold of her, displacing her earlier - position: 11

hissed:
thumped on the table with her small fists; and gregor hissed in - position: 11

widow:
the charwoman was here.  this elderly widow, with a robust bone - position: 7

beds:
pillows and covers on the beds flew up and were put into order and - position: 6
she had already finished making the beds and slipped out again - position: 7

1.f.1:
1.f.1.  project gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable - position: 1

raise:
even through all the doors would probably raise concern if not - position: 8
gregor to himself; but without daring to raise his voice loud enough - position: 8
able to stand up but, as a sign of his pleasure, would just raise - position: 14

normally:
milk did not taste at all nice.  milk like this was normally his - position: 12
been lit in the living room.  his father at this time would normally - position: 13
normally unkempt white hair was combed down painfully close to his - position: 1

belly:
see his brown belly, slightly domed and divided by arches into stiff - position: 4
slight itch up on his belly; pushed himself slowly up on his back - position: 6
belly.  this picture at least, now totally covered by gregor, would - position: 1

bedsheet:
this sight, he spent four hours carrying the bedsheet over to the - position: 9

smile:
despite all the difficulty he was in, he could not suppress a smile - position: 13
in his hand and a carefree smile on his face as he called forth - position: 7
with a pained smile, and grete followed her parents into the bedroom - position: 4
the doorway with a smile on her face as if she had some tremendous - position: 5

rocked:
been hard for him to keep his balance if he rocked too hard.  the - position: 11

perfect:
then, once they were alone, they ate in near perfect silence.  it - position: 10

differently:
differently from before. - position: 1

water:
butter and salt.  as well as all that she had poured some water into - position: 13
water to do it - although that much dampness also made gregor ill - position: 1

as-is:
in paragraph 1.f.3, this work is provided to you 'as-is,' with no other - position: 10

bottle:
round; a bottle fell to the ground and broke; a splinter cut - position: 3

regard:
regard for what might happen.  one side of his body lifted itself, - position: 1
sister to gain their attention too, "that with regard to the - position: 9

offer:
to offer him.  "seven o'clock, already", he said to himself when the - position: 2

paperwork:
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up - position: 4

salesman:
lay spread out on the table - samsa was a travelling salesman - and - position: 11
vigour that raised him from a junior salesman to a travelling - position: 8

robust:
the charwoman was here.  this elderly widow, with a robust bone - position: 10

places:
went into one of the worst of these places when his sister arrived - position: 9

final:
time was now ten past seven and he would have to make a final - position: 14

towards:
towards the viewer. - position: 1
towards the headboard so that he could lift his head better; found - position: 1
towards gregor and sank down onto the floor into her skirts that - position: 1
while gregor was speaking, but moved steadily towards the door - position: 8
a panic.  in the hall, he stretched his right hand far out towards - position: 13
the table and into the arms of his father as he rushed towards her. - position: 13
her face.  a strong draught of air flew in from the street towards - position: 13
door and lifted it towards his father.  he really had not imagined - position: 5
long uniform coat, and, with look of determination, walked towards - position: 10
courtesy towards the three gentlemen, did not even dare to sit on - position: 2
back towards their room only very slowly.  meanwhile gregor's sister - position: 2
straight line towards the man.  at first, he stood there still, - position: 3

blue:
dressed in a smart blue uniform with gold buttons, the sort worn by - position: 5

people:
people all the time so that you can never get to know anyone or - position: 1
if somebody came to help him.  two strong people - he had his father - position: 9
people in commerce ever become slightly unwell then, fortunately or - position: 1
open;  people often do in homes where something awful has happened. - position: 2
better.  he felt that he had been drawn back in among people, and - position: 12
from poor people, gregor's father brought bank employees their - position: 3
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who - position: 13
people in all walks of life. - position: 1
most people start at our web site which has the main pg search facility: - position: 2

lit:
been lit in the living room.  his father at this time would normally - position: 2

heart:
heart; and why wouldn't gregor feel the same way about it, he'd been - position: 1

dinner:
construed as friendly.  "he's enjoyed his dinner today", she might - position: 7
down into the middle of the dinner table. - position: 7
family in the light of the dinner table and listen to their - position: 7
all of them were usually very quiet nowadays.  soon after dinner, - position: 11

lamp:
lamp, would sew fancy underwear for a fashion shop; his sister, who - position: 1

mad:
seven; if he were to catch that he would have to rush like mad and - position: 14
devoted who would go so mad with pangs of conscience that he - position: 6

young:
the contrary", said the middle gentleman, "would the young lady not - position: 9
blossoming into a well built and beautiful young lady.  they became - position: 8
first to get up and stretch out her young body. - position: 9

getting:
he slid back into his former position.  "getting up early all the - position: 8
himself with saying: "yes, mother, yes, thank-you, i'm getting up - position: 9
just getting out of bed.  just a moment.  be patient! it's not quite - position: 2
for getting through the doorway.  what he did, making more noise - position: 2
it was not until it was getting dark that evening that gregor awoke - position: 7
he was tired and getting into the damp bed in some small hotel room. - position: 5
getting weaker and weaker and would finally disappear altogether. - position: 1

access:
if you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a project - position: 12
and help preserve free future access to project gutenberg-tm electronic - position: 6
gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by - position: 6
access to, the full project gutenberg-tm license must appear prominently - position: 1
or charges.  if you are redistributing or providing access to a work - position: 9
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the project - position: 5
word processing or hypertext form.  however, if you provide access to or - position: 10
1.e.7.  do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying, - position: 8
access to or distributing project gutenberg-tm electronic works provided - position: 1
and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of - position: 8

pity's:
fingers spread shouting: "help, for pity's sake, help!"  the way she - position: 6

milk:
sweetened milk with little pieces of white bread floating in it.  he - position: 2
milk, nearly covering his eyes with it.  but he soon drew his head - position: 1
milk did not taste at all nice.  milk like this was normally his - position: 1
milk did not taste at all nice.  milk like this was normally his - position: 8
and watched her.  would she notice that he had left the milk as it - position: 12
and looked at it and the few drops of milk splashed around it with - position: 10

grey:
looking out the window at a barren waste where the grey sky and the - position: 11
grey earth mingled inseparably.  his observant sister only needed to - position: 1

working:
is working with his fretsaw.  he's made a little frame, for - position: 2
possible.  so then he started working especially hard, with a fiery - position: 6
not been working - the first holiday in a life that had been full of - position: 3
been working for them, swayed gently in all directions.  "what is it - position: 2

smooth:
times he tried to climb up on the smooth chest of drawers he just - position: 9

superfluous:
things had become superfluous which, although they could not be - position: 4

tired:
listening.  there were times when he simply became too tired to - position: 10
were there anyway, as they were now too tired to say anything while - position: 9
that really his father? the same tired man as used to be laying - position: 7
he was tired and getting into the damp bed in some small hotel room. - position: 3
while mother and sister would exchange a tired grin. - position: 8
who, in this tired and overworked family, would have had time to - position: 4
enjoy it although moving about in that way left him sad and tired to - position: 13

809:
809 north 1500 west, salt lake city, ut 84116, (801) 596-1887, email - position: 1

rooms:
to much of what was said in the next rooms, and whenever he heard - position: 10
such things as one of the rooms in the flat had been rented out to - position: 7

glance:
changed, only his sister had stood up.  with his last glance he saw - position: 11
quieter.  just from each other's glance and almost without knowing - position: 6

inflamed:
inflamed area around it, which was entirely covered in white dust. - position: 1

away--you:
research.  they may be modified and printed and given away--you may do - position: 10

deeply:
true, he had not slept peacefully, but probably all the more deeply - position: 12
cold, she would stay at the window breathing deeply for a little - position: 9
would urge each other to be quiet; his mother, bent deeply under the - position: 11

gratitude:
they took the money with gratitude and he was glad to provide it, - position: 6
gratitude one time when he carefully looked out from under the sheet - position: 1

told:
gone up to the boss and told him just what i think, tell him - position: 7
peace and order to this chaos.  he told himself once more that it - position: 8
under them; to his pleasure, they did exactly as he told them; they - position: 11
experience of his feeding than being told about it, and perhaps his - position: 7
it was impossible for gregor to find out what they had told the - position: 12
remained from his father's business, at least he had never told him - position: 11
only they had told this charwoman to clean up his room every day - position: 4
ear bent down to him while he told her how he had always intended to - position: 8
send her to the conservatory, how he would have told everyone about - position: 10

tried:
must have tried it a hundred times, shut his eyes so that he - position: 3
white spots which he didn't know what to make of; and when he tried - position: 14
so then he tried to get the top part of his body out of the bed - position: 4
on the left.  gregor tried to imagine whether something of the sort - position: 5
bed - where he now tried to get himself upright.  he really did want - position: 5
times he tried to climb up on the smooth chest of drawers he just - position: 3
opening; tried to reach the chief clerk on the landing who, - position: 2
naturally, tried as far as possible to pretend there was nothing - position: 2
threatened her and tried to bite her.  gregor went straight to hide - position: 4
while his mother tried to draw his father, who was beside himself - position: 4
tried to tickle gregor with it from the doorway.  when she had no - position: 1
success with that she tried to make a nuisance of herself and poked - position: 5

week:
never goes out in the evenings; he's been in town for a week now but - position: 13
of course, but one day a week, perhaps; she could understand - position: 7

either:
immediately by the door, resolved either to bring the timorous - position: 6
mother certainly did not want him to starve either, but perhaps it - position: 9
or something similar.  no-one drank very much either.  his sister - position: 8
gregor hardly slept at all, either night or day.  sometimes he would - position: 6
from either his wife or his daughter as the charwoman seemed to have - position: 2
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.e.1 - position: 5

felt:
he began to feel a mild, dull pain there that he had never felt - position: 14
become friendly with them.  it can all go to hell!"  he felt a - position: 12
feel completely well and even felt much hungrier than usual. - position: 6
lying in bed.  he remembered that he had often felt a slight pain in - position: 10
bedpost, and learned from the burning pain he felt that the lower - position: 9
better.  he felt that he had been drawn back in among people, and - position: 3
enough sleep and felt fully rested.  but he had the impression that - position: 4
felt a great pride that he was able to provide a life like that in - position: 1
he was no longer able to lift his head, but he nonetheless felt - position: 13
against its glass, it held him firmly and felt good on his hot - position: 9
pain by changing his position; but he felt as if nailed to the spot - position: 8
instead of letting her disturb him for no reason whenever she felt - position: 12
not turn it all the way round as he felt his neck becoming stiff, - position: 10
was unnatural.  he also felt relatively comfortable.  it is true - position: 5
possible, he felt that he must go away even more strongly than his - position: 3

transformed:
himself transformed in his bed into a horrible vermin.  he lay on - position: 2

redistributing:
section 1.  general terms of use and redistributing project gutenberg-tm - position: 8
or charges.  if you are redistributing or providing access to a work - position: 6

proprietary:
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any - position: 6

smiled:
and smiled. - position: 2
middle of the three gentlemen first smiled at his two friends, - position: 7
middle of the three gentlemen somewhat disconcerted, and he smiled - position: 10

readable:
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers - position: 5
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest - position: 5

mission:
to protect the project gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free - position: 6
gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by - position: 2
section  2.  information about the mission of project gutenberg-tm - position: 6
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of - position: 10

ever:
that no-one was ever ill but that many were workshy.  and what's - position: 4
went to the door as ever and opened it.  gregor only needed to hear - position: 6
that had happened to him today could ever happen to the chief clerk - position: 8
me.  why else would gregor have missed a train! the lad only ever - position: 13
people in commerce ever become slightly unwell then, fortunately or - position: 4
accusations you're making; nobody's ever said a word to me about any - position: 5
be got back into his room as quickly as possible.  nor would he ever - position: 14
than ever, was to drive gregor forwards all the harder as if there - position: 2
to everything - there was, of course, no question of her ever - position: 11
his sister would often turn to the conservatory but it was only ever - position: 13
and it was then harder than ever to persuade him to exchange the - position: 7

shuffled:
this explanation and shuffled away.  but this short conversation - position: 4

solicitation:
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition - position: 5

harm:
without doing any harm.  another one however, immediately following - position: 4

astonished:
immediate explanation.  i am astonished, quite astonished.  i - position: 5
immediate explanation.  i am astonished, quite astonished.  i - position: 7
benefit of his astonished and delighted family.  they had been good - position: 4
out of his chair and the two parents looked on astonished and - position: 11

thoughtless:
become so thoughtless about the others.  what's more, there was now - position: 3

everything:
everything i would, let him know just what i feel.  he'd fall right - position: 1
answer and explain everything, but in the circumstances contented - position: 4
back and forth - it occurred to him how simple everything would be - position: 10
they danced around.  for a moment everything remained quiet. - position: 7
responsibility and he could rest.  if, however, they took everything - position: 10
going, in to the office? yes? will you report everything accurately, - position: 10
lid, and carried everything out.  she had hardly turned her back - position: 4
to everything - there was, of course, no question of her ever - position: 2
understand everything the first time.  from these repeated explanations - position: 2
everything looked, what gregor had eaten, how he had behaved this - position: 1
everything much better than his sister who, for all her courage, was - position: 1
sister came in and looked round to see that everything in the room - position: 10
folds into it so that everything really looked as if it had just - position: 6
find everything unchanged and he'll be able to forget the time in - position: 2
should be removed; everything had to stay; he could not do without - position: 4
his room out; taking away everything that was dear to him; they had - position: 6
denuded of everything else that had been on it - of the lady dressed - position: 3
couch as if she had given up everything and stayed there immobile. - position: 8
he crawled over everything, walls, furniture, ceiling, and finally - position: 4
must have made everything clear to him.  she answered him with - position: 4
impression of a chase as everything went so slowly.  gregor remained - position: 6
work; everything else was looked after by gregor's mother on top of - position: 2
to.  they carried out absolutely everything that the world expects - position: 6
throw everything out in one go, but what actually happened was that - position: 2
everything for her to begin playing; his parents, who had never - position: 1
his back and sides; he was much too indifferent to everything now to - position: 11
more, everything was left up to him.  as soon as he had finally - position: 2
everything in detail but, with outstretched hand, he made it quite - position: 1

contrast:
chief clerk, with a calmness that was in contrast with his mother's - position: 9
gregor, in contrast, had become much calmer.  so they couldn't - position: 3
disturbed gregor's sister, but soon, in contrast with the family, - position: 7

patient:
away from the bed, bend down with the load and then be patient and - position: 13
just getting out of bed.  just a moment.  be patient! it's not quite - position: 10
swallow any revulsion for him and to be patient, just to be patient. - position: 9
swallow any revulsion for him and to be patient, just to be patient. - position: 13
humanly possible to look after it and be patient, i don't think - position: 9

uncontrollable:
him, there was a painful and uncontrollable squeaking mixed in with - position: 7

banister:
ridiculously, was holding on to the banister with both hands; but - position: 7
clerk had already reached the stairs; with his chin on the banister, - position: 12

moment:
to slide off any moment.  his many legs, pitifully thin compared - position: 5
they danced around.  for a moment everything remained quiet. - position: 6
is, but he isn't."  "i'll be there in a moment", said gregor slowly - position: 10
the excitement, "i'll open up immediately, just a moment.  i'm - position: 9
just getting out of bed.  just a moment.  be patient! it's not quite - position: 8
trembling shoulders as he left.  he did not keep still for a moment - position: 13
completely forgotten the chief clerk for the moment, but could not - position: 8
any moment.  eventually, though, gregor realised that he had no - position: 2
very still, remained there a moment, and then went back out to - position: 6
moment, and he waited.  he was not even startled out of this state - position: 1

best:
would be the best thing for me.  if i didn't have my parents to - position: 4
cope for himself? i think it'd be best to leave the room exactly the - position: 8
see straight away that gregor had the best intentions and would go - position: 8
they decided the best way to make use of that day was for relaxation - position: 4

crying:
she crying? was it because he had not got up, and had not let the - position: 2
him and crying.  but the others didn't know what was happening, they - position: 3
of them had been crying a little; grete now and then pressed her - position: 5

treatment:
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from - position: 5

commerce:
people in commerce ever become slightly unwell then, fortunately or - position: 3

peculiar:
suddenly seem to be showing off with peculiar whims.  this morning, - position: 8

concentration:
his concentration, and as he regained his breath he said to himself: - position: 2
and concentration.  you're well aware that i'm seriously in debt to - position: 2

hard:
state couldn't get into that position.  however hard he threw - position: 8
hard of hearing.  well, there's still some hope; once i've got the - position: 1
imagine what it looked like; it turned out to be too hard to move; - position: 12
gather, he chose the wrong direction, hit hard against the lower - position: 8
probably avoid injuring it.  his back seemed to be quite hard, and - position: 11
been hard for him to keep his balance if he rocked too hard.  the - position: 2
been hard for him to keep his balance if he rocked too hard.  the - position: 13
from the evening meal, covered in white sauce that had gone hard; a - position: 12
possible.  so then he started working especially hard, with a fiery - position: 8
about it quite hard and decided he would let them know what he - position: 4
not give him much room to crawl about, it was hard to just lie - position: 11
coming.  we can't all work as hard as we have to and then come home - position: 7

defect:
money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the - position: 12
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can - position: 1
project gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any defect you cause. - position: 7

possibility:
incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of such - position: 10

electronic:
copying and distributing project gutenberg-tm electronic works to - position: 6
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work - position: 3
electronic works - position: 1
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to - position: 1
all copies of project gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession. - position: 6
gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the - position: 2
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who - position: 10
things that you can do with most project gutenberg-tm electronic works - position: 10
gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement - position: 2
and help preserve free future access to project gutenberg-tm electronic - position: 10
gutenberg-tm electronic works.  nearly all the individual works in the - position: 2
gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by - position: 8
1.e.2.  if an individual project gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived - position: 7
1.e.3.  if an individual project gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted - position: 7
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without - position: 1
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without - position: 8
access to or distributing project gutenberg-tm electronic works provided - position: 7
electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days - position: 1
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set - position: 1
collection.  despite these efforts, project gutenberg-tm electronic - position: 7
gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all - position: 2
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can - position: 4
providing copies of project gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance - position: 6
promotion and distribution of project gutenberg-tm electronic works, - position: 7
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers - position: 1
section 5.  general information about project gutenberg-tm electronic - position: 8
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared - position: 6

5200.txt:
***** this file should be named 5200.txt or 5200.zip ***** - position: 7

knees:
the very first day the maid had fallen to her knees and begged - position: 11

cool:
onto the cool, leather sofa next to it, as he became quite hot with - position: 3

salesmen:
sleep.  other travelling salesmen live a life of luxury.  for - position: 4
travelling salesmen. - position: 2
the salesmen and the apprentices, that stupid teaboy, two or three - position: 2

remind:
remind himself that calm consideration was much better than rushing - position: 1
enough to remind even his father that gregor, despite his current - position: 3

area:
inflamed area around it, which was entirely covered in white dust. - position: 2

agreed:
it they agreed that it would soon be time to find a good man for - position: 3
has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the - position: 2

diligently:
say when he had diligently cleared away all the food left for him, - position: 5

panting:
to work.  he could not help panting loudly with the effort and had - position: 7

heard:
drops of rain could be heard hitting the pane, which made him feel - position: 6
shocked when he heard his own voice answering, it could hardly be - position: 4
he had heard properly or not.  gregor had wanted to give a full - position: 3
highly polished boots could now be heard in the adjoining room. - position: 7
pay attention to anything else, when he heard the chief clerk - position: 8
a sound to be heard.  gregor's sister would often write and tell him - position: 5
stayed awake all that time, as they all could be distinctly heard as - position: 12
to much of what was said in the next rooms, and whenever he heard - position: 14
gregor often heard how one of them would unsuccessfully urge another - position: 3
his business when it had collapsed five years earlier.  gregor heard - position: 11
had taken the item he wanted.  what he heard his father say was some - position: 9
of the first good news that gregor heard since he had first been - position: 8
slightest noise he caused would be heard next door and they would - position: 7
eating their chewing teeth could still be heard, as if they had - position: 8
throughout all this time, gregor could not remember having heard the - position: 10
violin being played, but this evening it began to be heard from the - position: 11
stood pressed against each other.  someone must have heard them in - position: 9
sprung forward lightly, gregor had not heard her coming at all, and - position: 7
until he heard the clock tower strike three in the morning.  he - position: 3

screaming:
flow of coffee.  that set his mother screaming anew, she fled from - position: 8
screaming, his mother ran out in front of her in her blouse (as his - position: 1

samples:
between its four familiar walls.  a collection of textile samples - position: 10
the collection of samples was still not packed, and he did not at - position: 4
samples and set off.  will you please just let me leave? you can - position: 1

deductible:
literary archive foundation are tax deductible to the full extent - position: 6

search:
most people start at our web site which has the main pg search facility: - position: 13

pull:
door and he would pull it up again with a start, as even the - position: 5
gregor's room, then she would go straight to the window and pull it - position: 12
fast to the glass and had to pull himself off by force; then he, - position: 8

carry:
a miracle if his head were not injured, so he became afraid to carry - position: 14
this just by the way - you fail to carry out your business duties in - position: 9
were even making the effort to carry him where he wanted to go; and - position: 7
each step his father took he had to carry out countless movements. - position: 9
himself, let the women take him to the door, send them off and carry - position: 14
as introduction, "we can't carry on like this.  maybe you can't see - position: 5
any more, then, but we could carry on with our lives and remember - position: 7
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of - position: 7

changed:
catching their breath, he sallied out, changed direction four times - position: 7
ought to have expected things to have changed, but still, still, was - position: 8
changed, only his sister had stood up.  with his last glance he saw - position: 1

hurrying:
unthinking way she was hurrying backwards showed that she did not; - position: 5
hurrying over to him where they kissed him and hugged him and then - position: 1

clutter:
kitchen.  unnecessary clutter was something they could not tolerate, - position: 3

whether:
of echo which made them unclear, leaving the hearer unsure whether - position: 11
on the left.  gregor tried to imagine whether something of the sort - position: 8
would sometimes ask his father whether he would like a beer, hoping - position: 6
time and whether, perhaps, any slight improvement could be seen. - position: 3
infant school--he really could not wait any longer to see whether - position: 11
again with the broom, indifferent as to whether it had been eaten or - position: 8
while it was still in its dish, clearly wishing to establish whether - position: 12
it was sufficiently cooked or whether it should be sent back to the - position: 6
become a little annoyed, and it was not clear whether it was his - position: 10
consider whether to proceed with some kind of action for damages - position: 2

minor:
only a minor discourtesy, and a suitable excuse could easily be - position: 3

decisively:
- here he looked briefly but decisively at the floor - "i give - position: 6

emptied:
why he had seriously wanted his room emptied out.  had he really - position: 8

courage:
everything much better than his sister who, for all her courage, was - position: 11

ease:
immediately at ease and his only regret was that his body was too - position: 3

us:
stayed home every evening.  he sits with us in the kitchen and just - position: 8
"what is wrong? you barricade yourself in your room, give us no more - position: 11
parents, "surely he's not trying to make fools of us". "oh, god!" - position: 10
way it was before so that when gregor comes back to us again he'll - position: 12
like to come in and play for us here in the room, where it is, after - position: 8
anyone could accuse us of doing anything wrong." - position: 4
"if he could just understand us", said his father almost as a - position: 6
"if he could just understand us", repeated gregor's father, closing - position: 6
him with respect.  as it is this animal is persecuting us, it's - position: 11
flat and force us to sleep on the streets.  father, look, just - position: 4
"grete, come with us in here for a little while", said  mrs. samsa - position: 4
approach us with offers to donate. - position: 2

perhaps:
bed, perhaps caused by lying awkwardly, but that had always turned - position: 2
as if he perhaps expected the total stillness to bring things back - position: 4
last night, my parents know about it, perhaps better than me, i had - position: 8
him, clearer than before - perhaps his ears had become used to the - position: 5
quiet in the next room.  perhaps his parents were sat at the table - position: 6
whispering with the chief clerk, or perhaps they were all pressed - position: 7
himself round.  it went very slowly, but perhaps his father was able - position: 8
mother certainly did not want him to starve either, but perhaps it - position: 11
experience of his feeding than being told about it, and perhaps his - position: 11
perhaps, one or two years, no more.  that's to say, it was money - position: 1
time and whether, perhaps, any slight improvement could be seen. - position: 4
of course, but one day a week, perhaps; she could understand - position: 8
they can.  perhaps this was what tempted grete to make gregor's - position: 3
looked around.  her eyes met those of gregor on the wall.  perhaps - position: 12
windowpanes, perhaps indicating that spring was coming, she began to - position: 2
the kitchen, as gregor's father called out: "is the playing perhaps - position: 11
and perhaps also because he was weak from hunger, made it impossible - position: 2
impossible, "then perhaps we could come to some kind of arrangement - position: 3

left-overs:
broom and swept up the left-overs, mixing them in with the food he - position: 6

coughed:
make his voice as clear as possible, he coughed a little, but taking - position: 9

squarely:
it, hit squarely and lodged in his back; gregor wanted to drag - position: 3

overworked:
who, in this tired and overworked family, would have had time to - position: 6

pg:
most people start at our web site which has the main pg search facility: - position: 12

**:
** this is a copyrighted project gutenberg ebook, details below ** - position: 1
** this is a copyrighted project gutenberg ebook, details below ** - position: 11
**     please follow the copyright guidelines in this file.     ** - position: 1
**     please follow the copyright guidelines in this file.     ** - position: 10

shoulders:
trembling shoulders as he left.  he did not keep still for a moment - position: 2
his sister just shrugged her shoulders as a sign of the helplessness - position: 6
shoulders,  mrs. samsa just came out in her nightdress; and that is - position: 1

encoding:
character set encoding: ascii - position: 3

nailed:
pain by changing his position; but he felt as if nailed to the spot - position: 11

table:
lay spread out on the table - samsa was a travelling salesman - and - position: 6
quiet in the next room.  perhaps his parents were sat at the table - position: 13
table; there was so much of it because, for gregor's father, - position: 1
she had forgotten that the table was behind her with all the - position: 6
breakfast things on it; when she reached the table she sat quickly - position: 9
the table and into the arms of his father as he rushed towards her. - position: 2
and overcoat), picked up a large newspaper from the table with his - position: 10
the stairway, the curtains flew up, the newspapers on the table - position: 11
prospects were.  now and then he stood up from the table and took - position: 11
straight into cash that he could lay on the table at home for the - position: 10
down into the middle of the dinner table. - position: 8
family in the light of the dinner table and listen to their - position: 8
staying longer at the table, even though he regularly fell asleep - position: 5
dry-eyed at the table. - position: 4
thumped on the table with her small fists; and gregor hissed in - position: 4
they sat up at the table where, formerly, gregor had taken his meals - position: 6
bowed once with his cap in his hand and did his round of the table. - position: 15
"father, mother", said his sister, hitting the table with her hand - position: 8
they were in serious need of it.  so they sat at the table and wrote - position: 13

99712:
fairbanks, ak, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered - position: 3

august:
release date: august 16, 2005 [ebook #5200] - position: 3

even:
hands were quietly moving forwards, it was even later than half - position: 8
all feel particularly fresh and lively.  and even if he did catch - position: 8
feel completely well and even felt much hungrier than usual. - position: 5
from his travelling, of locking all doors at night even when he was - position: 10
his legs as they struggled against each other even harder than - position: 9
unfortunately, even the other side of the narrow street was - position: 2
even through all the doors would probably raise concern if not - position: 1
though, even apart from the fact that all the doors were locked? - position: 2
even necessary - did the chief clerk have to come himself, and did - position: 1
only just got up and had not even begun to get dressed.  and why was - position: 8
care to do this not too loudly as even this might well sound - position: 9
thing, we don't usually even hear about them, or if at all it's when - position: 5
the harmful effects of what's been going on without even knowing - position: 10
were even making the effort to carry him where he wanted to go; and - position: 2
down on it without knowing what she was doing; without even seeming - position: 11
afterwards anyway even if he hadn't been disturbed, as he had had - position: 3
was so pleased he almost laughed, as he was even hungrier than he - position: 10
recent times.  it was so quiet all around too, even though there - position: 10
even though he had been living in it for five years.  hardly aware - position: 1
entering the room of someone seriously ill or even of a stranger. - position: 9
her, she hurried out again and even turned the key in the lock so - position: 7
fresh foods, on the other hand, he didn't like at all, and even - position: 13
stay there even for the short time that his sister was in the room, - position: 3
had not even touched at all as if it could not be used any more. - position: 3
flat.  as nobody could understand him, nobody, not even his sister, - position: 9
especially at first, that was not about him in some way, even if - position: 12
was about what they should do now; but even between meals they spoke - position: 9
if she had done her an enormous service.  she even swore - position: 10
happened, even though no-one had asked that of her. - position: 2
even before the first day had come to an end, his father had - position: 1
splendour, even though gregor had later earned so much that he was - position: 2
them.  they had even got used to it, both gregor and the family, - position: 4
secret plan to send her to the conservatory next year even though it - position: 11
door and he would pull it up again with a start, as even the - position: 13
less distinct every day, even things that were quite near; he had - position: 5
even left the inner pane of the window open from then on. - position: 1
able to see through it all so much better.  it had even become very - position: 12
hurriedly open almost as if she were suffocating.  even if it was - position: 9
unbearable and would continue to do so, she probably even had to - position: 10
protruded from under the couch.  one day, in order to spare her even - position: 13
and his sister would not be able to see him even if she bent down. - position: 11
sheet where it was.  gregor even thought he glimpsed a look of - position: 6
even though, before, they had seen her as a girl who was somewhat - position: 1
that he would surprise even himself by letting go of the ceiling and - position: 5
better control of his body than before and, even with a fall as - position: 9
had even asked to be allowed to keep the kitchen locked at all times - position: 2
even more, and for another thing it wasn't even sure that taking the - position: 1
even more, and for another thing it wasn't even sure that taking the - position: 9
not know) to hear not even the tone of her voice, as she was - position: 6
situation seem even more shocking than it was so that she could do - position: 3
even more for him.  grete would probably be the only one who would - position: 1
as a business trainee, at high school, even while he had been at - position: 8
wallpaper, and before she even realised it was gregor that she saw - position: 5
did not have the time to explain things to him even if that had been - position: 11
nightgown when he came back in the evenings; who was hardly even - position: 12
gregor.  he probably did not even know himself what he had in mind, - position: 6
father stopped, scurried forwards again when he moved, even - position: 9
without anything decisive happening, without even giving the - position: 6
he became noticeably short of breath, even in his earlier life his - position: 7
now, without even taking the time for careful aim, threw one apple - position: 3
enough to remind even his father that gregor, despite his current - position: 4
uniform off even at home; while his nightgown hung unused on its peg - position: 3
superior even here.  the uniform had not been new to start with, but - position: 2
as a result of this it slowly became even shabbier despite the - position: 9
staying longer at the table, even though he regularly fell asleep - position: 6
household budget became even smaller; so now the maid was dismissed; - position: 4
the large amount of sewing work she did.  gregor even learned, - position: 10
had been sold, even though both mother and sister had been very fond - position: 4
even if he was not hungry.  gregor's sister no longer thought about - position: 1
anger that no-one had even thought of closing the door to save him - position: 5
after gregor as she had done before was even more work for her, but - position: 9
even so his mother ought certainly not to have taken her place. - position: 1
was without moving as if the door had never even been opened.  if - position: 10
courtesy towards the three gentlemen, did not even dare to sit on - position: 8
driving gregor out, even though they were not at all upset and - position: 4
moment, and he waited.  he was not even startled out of this state - position: 8
which was totally beyond gregor's comprehension, his sister even - position: 9
possible, he felt that he must go away even more strongly than his - position: 9
even though she could have checked for herself and could have known - position: 1
it even without checking.  "that's what i said",  replied the - position: 2
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  see - position: 1
incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of such - position: 3

clock:
and he looked over at the alarm clock, ticking on the chest of - position: 8
past, more like quarter to seven.  had the alarm clock not rung? he - position: 10
to get out of the bed, when the clock struck quarter to seven. - position: 9
clock struck again, "seven o'clock, and there's still a fog like - position: 1
until he heard the clock tower strike three in the morning.  he - position: 5

asleep:
was immediately startled, although he had been half asleep, and he - position: 9
morning while his parents and the maid were still asleep, and the - position: 10
staying longer at the table, even though he regularly fell asleep - position: 11
that his mother had now fallen completely asleep. - position: 8
been asleep, and the paleness of her face seemed to confirm this. - position: 2

god's:
somewhere, for god's sake, he couldn't have flown away - she was so - position: 3

viewer:
towards the viewer. - position: 3

90:
electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days - position: 10
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can - position: 7

conservatory:
secret plan to send her to the conservatory next year even though it - position: 8
his sister would often turn to the conservatory but it was only ever - position: 8
send her to the conservatory, how he would have told everyone about - position: 5

sympathy:
"my child", said her father with sympathy and obvious understanding, - position: 7

kind:
he must have been causing some kind of damage as a brown fluid came - position: 7
transformation.  she ran into the other room to fetch some kind of - position: 11
gregor's face, some kind of caustic medicine splashed all over him; - position: 4
with a kind of stubbornness, gregor's father refused to take his - position: 3
was like a kind of attack.  instead of being afraid, the charwoman - position: 4
consider whether to proceed with some kind of action for damages - position: 7
impossible, "then perhaps we could come to some kind of arrangement - position: 9
warranties of any kind, express or implied, including but not limited to - position: 4

affection:
although there was no longer much warm affection given in return. - position: 8

day:
chosen! travelling day in and day out.  doing business like this - position: 3
chosen! travelling day in and day out.  doing business like this - position: 6
meanwhile the day had become much lighter; part of the endless, - position: 3
breakfast was the most important meal of the day and he would - position: 9
had that happened than, for the first time that day, he began to - position: 10
during the day, no-one came, and the keys were in the other sides. - position: 3
thought of how his finger had still hurt the day before yesterday. - position: 10
this was how gregor received his food each day now, once in the - position: 9
the very first day the maid had fallen to her knees and begged - position: 4
even before the first day had come to an end, his father had - position: 5
planned with a grand announcement of it on christmas day. - position: 10
day when he could have freed himself from that job would have come - position: 1
just to move about the home, every other day would be spent - position: 9
less distinct every day, even things that were quite near; he had - position: 4
while.  she would alarm gregor twice a day with this running about - position: 8
one day, about a month after gregor's transformation when his sister - position: 2
protruded from under the couch.  one day, in order to spare her even - position: 7
that maybe it would be better if his mother came in, not every day - position: 14
of course, but one day a week, perhaps; she could understand - position: 5
the window during the day, the few square meters of the floor did - position: 5
with that - he knew full well, right from the first day of his new - position: 11
gregor hardly slept at all, either night or day.  sometimes he would - position: 9
day, rather than any real curiosity, she opened the door to gregor's - position: 1
only they had told this charwoman to clean up his room every day - position: 13
like it! one day, early in the morning while a heavy rain struck the - position: 4
one day - were painfully insistent on things' being tidy.  this - position: 2
do several times a day.  and despite this condition, he was not too - position: 5
they decided the best way to make use of that day was for relaxation - position: 11

wise:
situation had been confident and wise, and that made him feel - position: 6

evenings:
never goes out in the evenings; he's been in town for a week now but - position: 6
instance, it only took him two or three evenings, you'll be amazed - position: 9
nightgown when he came back in the evenings; who was hardly even - position: 8
had taken a sales job, learned shorthand and french in the evenings - position: 12

everywhere:
dust that lay everywhere in his room and flew up at the slightest - position: 4
watched as it slowly began to get light everywhere outside the - position: 9

believe:
continued to speak through the door.  "he isn't well, please believe - position: 11
from you, and believe me it would be very easy to set out the - position: 4

walls:
between its four familiar walls.  a collection of textile samples - position: 5
of crawling up and down the walls and ceiling.  he was especially - position: 7
the opposite; the sight of the bare walls saddened her right to her - position: 8
dare enter a room dominated by gregor crawling about the bare walls - position: 12
he crawled over everything, walls, furniture, ceiling, and finally - position: 5
forgot that the walls were there for him to use although, here, they - position: 4
any quicker about it.  smears of dirt were left on the walls, here - position: 12

pride:
felt a great pride that he was able to provide a life like that in - position: 4
his head in the living room.  before, he had taken great pride in - position: 12

tram:
something they had not done for months, and took the tram out to the - position: 11
open country outside the town.  they had the tram, filled with warm - position: 9

timetables:
reads the paper or studies train timetables.  his idea of relaxation - position: 7

lovely:
mentioned as a lovely dream that could never be realised.  their - position: 4

guest:
instance, whenever i go back to the guest house during the morning - position: 8

entrusted:
entrusted to you - but i came near to giving him my word of honour - position: 1

know:
people all the time so that you can never get to know anyone or - position: 12
white spots which he didn't know what to make of; and when he tried - position: 6
everything i would, let him know just what i feel.  he'd fall right - position: 6
him know: "gregor, the chief clerk is here."  "yes, i know", said - position: 2
him know: "gregor, the chief clerk is here."  "yes, i know", said - position: 11
clerk has come round and wants to know why you didn't leave on the - position: 8
early train.  we don't know what to say to him.  and anyway, he - position: 5
him and crying.  but the others didn't know what was happening, they - position: 8
last night, my parents know about it, perhaps better than me, i had - position: 5
it.  i don't know why i didn't let you know at work! but you always - position: 4
it.  i don't know why i didn't let you know at work! but you always - position: 10
office.  i know that nobody likes the travellers.  they think we - position: 3
that gregor would know he could make things as comfortable for - position: 4
about it quite hard and decided he would let them know what he - position: 11
not know) to hear not even the tone of her voice, as she was - position: 2
gregor.  he probably did not even know himself what he had in mind, - position: 7
"you're doing so much sewing again today!", as if he did not know - position: 13
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition - position: 8

attributed:
playing the martyr; she attributed all possible understanding to - position: 5

cheerio:
and, clearly peeved, called out "cheerio then, everyone", turned - position: 6

cost:
this ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with - position: 12
this ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with - position: 12
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a - position: 6

fees:
and distributed to anyone in the united states without paying any fees - position: 12
fees.  you agree that you have no remedies for negligence, strict - position: 1
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees, - position: 10
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up - position: 7

whirred:
himself as he liked.  gregor's little legs whirred, at last he could - position: 8

accumulated:
had accumulated.  besides that, they had not been using up all the - position: 2

item:
had taken the item he wanted.  what he heard his father say was some - position: 4

replace:
updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions - position: 4

buttons:
dressed in a smart blue uniform with gold buttons, the sort worn by - position: 9
this coat, with its gold buttons always kept polished and shiny, - position: 6
hand pushed in between two buttons on his uniform coat; his mother, - position: 6

misfortunes:
gregor learned, to his pleasure, that despite all their misfortunes - position: 10

captivate:
chance came.  was he an animal if music could captivate him so? it - position: 10

steadily:
while gregor was speaking, but moved steadily towards the door - position: 7

slammed:
bleeding, deep into his room.  the door was slammed shut with the - position: 9
shocked that she lost control of herself and slammed the door shut - position: 9
she could and ran with them in to her mother; she slammed the door - position: 12
the chair in her hand had been slammed down into gregor's back. - position: 8
that, he took hold of the door handle and slammed the door. - position: 10

uneasy:
to remain made him feel uneasy as he lay there flat on the floor, - position: 6
before his sister came back and she seemed much more uneasy than - position: 11
already looked uneasy in his room, she soon stopped speaking and - position: 3

choice:
choice as he saw, to his disgust, that he was quite incapable of - position: 1
important; so his sister had no choice but to choose some time when - position: 7

ring:
decision very soon.  then there was a ring at the door of the flat. - position: 8

admit:
all, but he soon had to admit that the women going to and fro, their - position: 7
his body pressed to the floor, he was forced to admit to himself - position: 11
ceiling.  whatever he did, gregor had to admit that he certainly - position: 8

falling:
out of the bed all at the same time.  if he succeeded in falling out - position: 14
probably nothing would happen to it falling onto the carpet.  his - position: 7
falling, now throwing down large, individual droplets which hit the - position: 1

calls:
little calls to each other, the scraping of the furniture on the - position: 2

pages:
please check the project gutenberg web pages for current donation - position: 7

now:
because of that.  what should he do now? the next train went at - position: 8
now."  the change in gregor's voice probably could not be noticed - position: 1
both sides: "i'm ready, now", making an effort to remove all the - position: 5
himself out now at any price; better to stay in bed than lose - position: 3
time was now ten past seven and he would have to make a final - position: 3
highly polished boots could now be heard in the adjoining room. - position: 5
"gregor", said his father now from the room to his left, "the chief - position: 5
never goes out in the evenings; he's been in town for a week now but - position: 14
now then?", asked his father impatiently, knocking at the door - position: 1
to leave him now in peace instead of disturbing him with talking at - position: 4
the chief clerk now raised his voice, "mr. samsa", he called to him, - position: 4
thought i knew you as a calm and sensible person, and now you - position: 12
that that could not be the right explanation.  but now that i see - position: 10
up.  i'm still in bed now.  i'm quite fresh again now, though.  i'm - position: 6
up.  i'm still in bed now.  i'm quite fresh again now, though.  i'm - position: 11
as easy as i'd thought.  i'm quite alright now, though.  it's - position: 9
bed - where he now tried to get himself upright.  he really did want - position: 4
but he no longer gave any attention to it.  now he let himself fall - position: 10
it with his little legs.  by now he had also calmed down, and kept - position: 7
gregor spoke just now?"  "that was the voice of an animal", said the - position: 4
the entrance hall, clapping his hands, "get a locksmith here, now!" - position: 11
now he also saw him - he was the nearest to the door - his hand - position: 1
falling, now throwing down large, individual droplets which hit the - position: 2
"now, then", said gregor, well aware that he was the only one to - position: 1
have kept calm, "i'll get dressed straight away now, pack up my - position: 9
gregor, though, had no time to spare for his parents now; the chief - position: 11
controlled, but now, instead of running after the chief clerk - position: 3
now and then he used the tip of his stick to give directions from a - position: 1
now more than one father behind him; it was not a pleasant - position: 1
with his antennae - of which he was now beginning to learn the value - position: 8
gregor's mother, and sometimes to his sister, but there was now not - position: 11
such a nice home for his sister and parents.  but what now, if all - position: 12
wanted to get in there to him, but now, now that he had opened up - position: 9
wanted to get in there to him, but now, now that he had opened up - position: 10
was put out, and now it was easy to see that his parents and sister had - position: 5
this was how gregor received his food each day now, once in the - position: 10
frequent, she would often say, sadly, "now everything's just been - position: 7
was about what they should do now; but even between meals they spoke - position: 7
now gregor's sister also had to help his mother with the cooking; - position: 1
prospects were.  now and then he stood up from the table and took - position: 3
gregor only remained close to his sister now.  unlike him, she was - position: 8
all go silent.  "what's that he's doing now", his father would say - position: 8
much closer, but now it was certainly better the way his father had - position: 4
very slow and clumsy.  would gregor's elderly mother now have to go - position: 9
doing this, but doing it now was obviously something more remembered - position: 6
street, but now he could not see it at all, and if he had not known - position: 3
unpleasant for him, now, whenever she entered the room.  no sooner - position: 4
useless and frequently been annoyed with her.  but now the two of - position: 9
landing on the floor with a crash.  but now, of course, he had far - position: 9
drawers and the desk.  now, this was not something that she would be - position: 5
mother's advice now was sufficient reason for her to insist on - position: 3
now they threatened to remove the writing desk with its place - position: 1
were there anyway, as they were now too tired to say anything while - position: 7
belly.  this picture at least, now totally covered by gregor, would - position: 6
carrying her.  "what shall we take now, then?", said grete and - position: 7
now, without delaying any longer, grete took hold of all the bottles - position: 1
shut with her foot.  so now gregor was shut out from his mother, - position: 6
fainted, but she's better now.  gregor got out."  "just as i - position: 5
that meant gregor would now have to try to calm his father, as he - position: 5
his father the way he stood there now; of late, with his new habit - position: 8
companions around him.  he was standing up straight enough now; - position: 10
lungs had not been very reliable.  now, as he lurched about in his - position: 7
now, without even taking the time for careful aim, threw one apple - position: 1
around him, uniting herself with him totally - now gregor lost his - position: 8
household budget became even smaller; so now the maid was dismissed; - position: 7
to bed gregor's mother and sister would now leave their work where - position: 8
cleared up the room in the evening, but now she could not have been - position: 9
gregor, on the other hand, ought not to be neglected.  now, though, - position: 11
that they had no room for anywhere else, and there were now many - position: 12
the others, and now they leant back in their chairs reading them and - position: 4
how considerate he was but now it hardly occurred to him that he had - position: 6
become so thoughtless about the others.  what's more, there was now - position: 11
his back and sides; he was much too indifferent to everything now to - position: 12
gregor's father observed them anxiously.  it really now seemed very - position: 8
had enough of the whole performance and it was only now out of - position: 11
trying to block their view of gregor with his body.  now they did - position: 11
now", he said, raising his hand and glancing at gregor's mother and - position: 1
"we have to try and get rid of it", said gregor's sister, now - position: 13
his good intention and had only been alarmed briefly.  now they all - position: 10
"maybe now they'll let me turn round", thought gregor and went back - position: 2
that his mother had now fallen completely asleep. - position: 5
"what now, then?", gregor asked himself as he looked round in the - position: 2
complete it.  "now then", said  mr. samsa, "let's give thanks to god - position: 3
until then, but now he was not lifted up on his little legs, nor did - position: 4
hands in the pockets of their well-worn coats. it was now quite - position: 11
of them had been crying a little; grete now and then pressed her - position: 9
"leave my home.  now!", said  mr. samsa, indicating the door and - position: 4
before and had been listening to what was being said.  now they - position: 11
easily by moving house; what they needed now was a flat that was - position: 8

scratching:
wink but scratching at the leather for hours on end.  or he might go - position: 3

distinguish:
achievements - although he did not really distinguish one from the - position: 7

total:
as if he perhaps expected the total stillness to bring things back - position: 7
their business misfortune had reduced the family to a state of total - position: 12
from their decision to move was much more to do with their total - position: 13

instrument:
the instrument on her mother's lap who still sat laboriously - position: 2

healed:
eat.  what's more, his injuries must already have completely healed - position: 10

moments:
would reappear a few moments later; the further down they went, the - position: 5

gentlemen:
to copy out the contract, these gentlemen are always still sitting - position: 7
three gentlemen.  these earnest gentlemen - all three of them had - position: 2
three gentlemen.  these earnest gentlemen - all three of them had - position: 5
the gentlemen who rented the room would sometimes take their evening - position: 2
room slightly open, and it remained open when the gentlemen who - position: 10
filled the room with its smell.  the gentlemen bent over the dishes - position: 8
the gentlemen stood as one, and mumbled something into their beards. - position: 2
kitchen.  the three gentlemen had already finished their meal, the - position: 4
unpleasant for the gentlemen? we can stop it straight away."  "on - position: 4
himself.  the gentlemen stepped back into the room and waited. - position: 3
courtesy towards the three gentlemen, did not even dare to sit on - position: 5
though, was offered a seat by one of the gentlemen and sat - leaving - position: 10
the violin playing; at first, the three gentlemen had put their - position: 8
middle of the three gentlemen first smiled at his two friends, - position: 5
to think it more important to calm the three gentlemen before - position: 10
which, under pressure from her father, the three gentlemen were more - position: 9
before the three gentlemen had reached the room.  gregor's father - position: 4
the three gentlemen shouted like thunder and stamped his foot and - position: 3
throughout all this, gregor had lain still where the three gentlemen - position: 11
the plates left by the three gentlemen after their meal, and - position: 7
gentlemen had moved in; she was fully dressed as if she had never - position: 1
the three gentlemen stepped out of their room and looked round in - position: 3
middle of the three gentlemen somewhat disconcerted, and he smiled - position: 5
the three gentlemen made slow but steady progress down the many - position: 3

received:
this was how gregor received his food each day now, once in the - position: 5
"tonight she gets sacked", said  mr. samsa, but he received no reply - position: 10
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  if you - position: 7
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with - position: 1
refund.  if you received the work electronically, the person or entity - position: 4
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  to - position: 5
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from - position: 8

blown:
fluttered and some of them were blown onto the floor.  nothing would - position: 7

become:
become friendly with them.  it can all go to hell!"  he felt a - position: 1
people in commerce ever become slightly unwell then, fortunately or - position: 5
gregor, in contrast, had become much calmer.  so they couldn't - position: 5
him, clearer than before - perhaps his ears had become used to the - position: 9
he could judge this for himself.  meanwhile, it had become very - position: 10
meanwhile the day had become much lighter; part of the endless, - position: 5
understand very well; over the years, they had become convinced that - position: 9
his father would become impatient, and there was the threat of a - position: 4
his room.  it was only later, when she had become a little more used - position: 10
strain and no success - he had put on a lot of weight and become - position: 14
able to see through it all so much better.  it had even become very - position: 13
his sister, unfortunately, did not agree; she had become used to the - position: 9
was of no use to him at all.  girls of that age, though, do become - position: 15
been in work he had become more obstinate and would always insist on - position: 6
things had become superfluous which, although they could not be - position: 3
become so thoughtless about the others.  what's more, there was now - position: 1
become a little annoyed, and it was not clear whether it was his - position: 1
become excited merely because she was and stood up half raising his - position: 1
worry they had been having of late her cheeks had become pale, but, - position: 11

tops:
and tops of the furniture, but down below, where gregor was, it was - position: 2

couple:
couldn't get out of bed if he didn't spend at least a couple of - position: 13
his arms and who, on the couple of times a year when they went for a - position: 7

public:
walk together on a sunday or public holiday wrapped up tightly in - position: 7
creating the works from public domain print editions means that no - position: 5
practically anything with public domain ebooks.  redistribution is - position: 4
collection are in the public domain in the united states.  if an - position: 5
individual work is in the public domain in the united states and you are - position: 6
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is - position: 3
public domain works in creating the project gutenberg-tm - position: 1
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of - position: 2
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be - position: 5
editions, all of which are confirmed as public domain in the u.s. - position: 8

4:
address specified in section 4, "information about donations to - position: 5
and how your efforts and donations can help, see sections 3 and 4 - position: 13
section 4.  information about donations to the project gutenberg - position: 2

prepared:
find himself next to the food that had been prepared for him he - position: 10
the music and his sister with the violin.  she calmly prepared - position: 11

observant:
grey earth mingled inseparably.  his observant sister only needed to - position: 6

unselfconsciously:
watched with bulging eyes as his sister unselfconsciously took a - position: 8

carefully:
strangeness from his voice by enunciating very carefully and putting - position: 8
first, carefully turning his head to the side.  this he managed - position: 2
head carefully enough, though, and hit it as he fell; annoyed and in - position: 2
around one of the double doors, and he had to do it very carefully - position: 14
room being carefully shut had woken him.  the light from the - position: 3
gratitude one time when he carefully looked out from under the sheet - position: 6
slowly for his sake; who would place his stick down carefully and, - position: 11
were concealed behind carefully carved furniture full of notches and - position: 4
lift himself up carefully as if he were carrying the greatest load - position: 4

wide:
because he had to open the door in this way, it was already wide - position: 14
she soon realised what had really happened, opened her eyes wide, - position: 11
and opened the window wide.  although it was still early in the - position: 5
mr. samsa for his decision.  mr. samsa merely opened his eyes wide - position: 12
project gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide - position: 9

production:
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production, - position: 10

other's:
quieter.  just from each other's glance and almost without knowing - position: 5

rain:
drops of rain could be heard hitting the pane, which made him feel - position: 3
line of windows piercing its facade; the rain was still - position: 8
like it! one day, early in the morning while a heavy rain struck the - position: 12

afterwards:
afterwards anyway even if he hadn't been disturbed, as he had had - position: 1
death, and he would remain immobile for hours afterwards. - position: 9

blanket:
side, they hurried out of bed.  mr. samsa threw the blanket over his - position: 11

naturally:
naturally, tried as far as possible to pretend there was nothing - position: 1

kitchen:
stayed home every evening.  he sits with us in the kitchen and just - position: 11
screams.  "anna! anna!" his father called into the kitchen through - position: 9
had even asked to be allowed to keep the kitchen locked at all times - position: 10
door.  the maid, of course, had locked herself in her kitchen so - position: 11
kitchen.  unnecessary clutter was something they could not tolerate, - position: 1
their way into gregor's room.  the dustbins from the kitchen found - position: 10
kitchen.  it was to his satisfaction, and gregor's mother and - position: 1
the family themselves ate in the kitchen.  nonetheless, gregor's - position: 7
father came into the living room before he went into the kitchen, - position: 12
kitchen.  the three gentlemen had already finished their meal, the - position: 1
the kitchen, as gregor's father called out: "is the playing perhaps - position: 2

direct:
to desperate conclusions.  at times like this he would direct his - position: 10
lack of any direct human communication, along with the monotonous - position: 4
liable to you for actual, direct, indirect, consequential, punitive or - position: 6

clothes:
of wearing nice clothes, sleeping late, helping out in the business, - position: 4
sister had taken off some of her clothes after she had fainted to - position: 8
breakfast, his mother sacrificed herself by washing clothes for - position: 8

threat:
his father would become impatient, and there was the threat of a - position: 10

condemned:
condemned to work for a company where they immediately became highly - position: 1

corpse:
example.  grete, who had not taken her eyes from the corpse, said: - position: 11
room.  they did so, and stood around gregor's corpse with their - position: 9

hardest:
structure that made her able to withstand the hardest of things in - position: 9

hair:
a steady and invisible force.  gregor's mother, her hair still - position: 9
normally unkempt white hair was combed down painfully close to his - position: 4
an enormous, thick-boned charwoman with white hair that flapped - position: 7

covering:
milk, nearly covering his eyes with it.  but he soon drew his head - position: 3

bow:
bow hang limply for a while but continued to look at the music as if - position: 1

every:
suspicious at the slightest shortcoming? were all employees, every - position: 9
stayed home every evening.  he sits with us in the kitchen and just - position: 3
only in secret.  for two whole days, all the talk at every mealtime - position: 12
money that gregor had been bringing home every month, keeping only a - position: 8
just to move about the home, every other day would be spent - position: 7
less distinct every day, even things that were quite near; he had - position: 3
that maybe it would be better if his mother came in, not every day - position: 13
up for by the door to the living room being left open every evening. - position: 13
around her head came every morning and evening to do the heaviest - position: 5
slightly every evening and morning and look briefly in on him.  at - position: 2
only they had told this charwoman to clean up his room every day - position: 12
should, for once, be of some use to him; he wanted to be at every - position: 15

lives:
any more, then, but we could carry on with our lives and remember - position: 11

vermin:
himself transformed in his bed into a horrible vermin.  he lay on - position: 9

important:
breakfast was the most important meal of the day and he would - position: 5
important; so his sister had no choice but to choose some time when - position: 1
to think it more important to calm the three gentlemen before - position: 5
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt - position: 6

medium:
destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium - position: 11
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain - position: 4
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a - position: 10
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with - position: 7
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with - position: 12

lock:
lock with his mouth.  he seemed, unfortunately, to have no proper - position: 1
lock!"  and with the idea that they were all excitedly following his - position: 1
round he turned around the lock with it, only holding himself - position: 6
of the lock as it snapped back was gregor's sign that he could break - position: 3
her, she hurried out again and even turned the key in the lock so - position: 13
the key in the lock as a sign to him that he should withdraw.  he - position: 5
how he opened the complicated lock and then closed it again after he - position: 6
as she turned the key in the lock she said loudly to her parents "at - position: 8

met:
looked around.  her eyes met those of gregor on the wall.  perhaps - position: 5
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition - position: 3

amazed:
instance, it only took him two or three evenings, you'll be amazed - position: 12
as he found no difficulty in moving.  this amazed him, as more than - position: 9
but nonetheless lifted his feet unusually high.  gregor was amazed - position: 10
amazed at the great distance that separated him from his room, and - position: 1

short:
this explanation and shuffled away.  but this short conversation - position: 8
"gregor, gregor", he called, "what's wrong?"  and after a short - position: 10
stay there even for the short time that his sister was in the room, - position: 6
other way.  during gregor's short periods in town, conversation with - position: 5
he became noticeably short of breath, even in his earlier life his - position: 4

derivative:
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and - position: 5
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative - position: 7
creating derivative works based on this work or any other project - position: 2

seemed:
sections.  the bedding was hardly able to cover it and seemed ready - position: 11
what he wanted with that leg, all the others seemed to be set free - position: 10
probably avoid injuring it.  his back seemed to be quite hard, and - position: 7
be sacked on the spot.  and it seemed to gregor much more sensible - position: 8
understand his words any more, although they seemed clear enough to - position: 8
lock with his mouth.  he seemed, unfortunately, to have no proper - position: 6
front of him and seemed, at first, quite engrossed in herself, but - position: 5
flight of the chief clerk seemed, unfortunately, to put gregor's - position: 6
left side seemed like one, painfully stretched scar,  and he limped - position: 3
on the other side did the same; it seemed that someone needed to - position: 9
again from outside.  but she seemed to regret her behaviour, as she - position: 6
before his sister came back and she seemed much more uneasy than - position: 8
it there for more than a month, and his condition seemed serious - position: 11
eating it, and the gentleman in the middle, who seemed to count as - position: 10
seemed remarkable to gregor that above all the various noises of - position: 1
gregor's father observed them anxiously.  it really now seemed very - position: 9
seemed to him that he was being shown the way to the unknown - position: 1
shaking his head, and then looked back at gregor.  his father seemed - position: 12
seemed to think gregor was more entertaining than the violin playing - position: 1
seemed so obsessed with what he was doing that he forgot all the - position: 1
forehead.  her words seemed to give gregor's father some more - position: 4
floor.  he stopped and looked round.  they seemed to have realised - position: 8
at all.  this was no surprise to him, it seemed rather that being - position: 10
that his entire body was aching, but the pain seemed to be slowly - position: 10
been asleep, and the paleness of her face seemed to confirm this. - position: 9
from either his wife or his daughter as the charwoman seemed to have - position: 11

hidden:
all the more reason to keep himself hidden as he was covered in the - position: 8

times:
must have tried it a hundred times, shut his eyes so that he - position: 7
to desperate conclusions.  at times like this he would direct his - position: 5
times he tried to climb up on the smooth chest of drawers he just - position: 1
recent times.  it was so quiet all around too, even though there - position: 2
times and they had never come again, at least not with the same - position: 1
listening.  there were times when he simply became too tired to - position: 4
when explaining things, his father repeated himself several times, - position: 9
had even asked to be allowed to keep the kitchen locked at all times - position: 14
catching their breath, he sallied out, changed direction four times - position: 10
his arms and who, on the couple of times a year when they went for a - position: 9
slightly.  in this way they went round the room several times - position: 11
they no longer held the lively conversations of earlier times, of - position: 10
glad when they disappeared.  other times he was not at all in the - position: 6
do several times a day.  and despite this condition, he was not too - position: 3
and briefly nodded to him several times.  at that, and without - position: 7

cheeks:
worry they had been having of late her cheeks had become pale, but, - position: 9

certain:
1.f.5.  some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied - position: 9
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages. - position: 8

attackers:
door of his room at once to hiss and spit at the attackers; his - position: 13

beautiful:
obvious that they had expected to hear some beautiful or - position: 9
blossoming into a well built and beautiful young lady.  they became - position: 7

change:
i'll make the big change.  first of all though, i've got to get up, - position: 5
now."  the change in gregor's voice probably could not be noticed - position: 3
doubt that the change in his voice was nothing more than the first - position: 4
his sister arrived home in the evening than she noticed the change - position: 12
a constant state of change.  if you are outside the united states, check - position: 5

unnecessary:
unnecessary concern to your parents and you fail - and i mention - position: 1
kitchen.  unnecessary clutter was something they could not tolerate, - position: 2

converted:
money in quite different ways.  gregor converted his success at work - position: 7

assure:
gregor kept trying to assure himself that nothing unusual was - position: 5

quick:
away.  gregor is ill.  quick, get the doctor.  did you hear the way - position: 5
irritably.  she just put her finger on her lips and made a quick and - position: 13

listened:
listened very closely to all this, and approved fully.  later, - position: 1
of feeble women to be heaving about, but gregor listened as they - position: 10

disk:
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a - position: 7

courtesy:
courtesy towards the three gentlemen, did not even dare to sit on - position: 1

enunciating:
strangeness from his voice by enunciating very carefully and putting - position: 6

prospects:
prospects were.  now and then he stood up from the table and took - position: 1
they discussed their prospects and found that on closer examination - position: 4

insist:
mother's advice now was sufficient reason for her to insist on - position: 10
insist; she had indeed noticed that gregor needed a lot of room to - position: 1
been in work he had become more obstinate and would always insist on - position: 12

mr:
then the chief clerk called "good morning,  mr. samsa". "he isn't - position: 8
the chief clerk now raised his voice, "mr. samsa", he called to him, - position: 8
business at all,  mr. samsa, we cannot allow there to be." - position: 4
"mr. samsa!", shouted the middle gentleman to gregor's father, - position: 1
mr. and  mrs. samsa sat upright there in their marriage bed and had - position: 1
side, they hurried out of bed.  mr. samsa threw the blanket over his - position: 7
complete it.  "now then", said  mr. samsa, "let's give thanks to god - position: 6
then the door of the bedroom opened and  mr. samsa appeared in his - position: 9
"leave my home.  now!", said  mr. samsa, indicating the door and - position: 6
said", answered  mr. samsa, and, with his two companions, went in a - position: 3
then", he said, and looked up at  mr. samsa as if he had been - position: 8
mr. samsa for his decision.  mr. samsa merely opened his eyes wide - position: 1
mr. samsa for his decision.  mr. samsa merely opened his eyes wide - position: 6
mr. samsa might go into the hallway in front of them and break the - position: 1
word and left the premises.  mr. samsa and the two women followed - position: 6
way up and came nearer than they were,  mr. samsa and the women came - position: 9
three letters of excusal,  mr. samsa to his employers,  mrs. samsa - position: 5
in irritation.  "well?", asked  mr. samsa.  the charwoman stood in - position: 5
had been a source of irritation to  mr. samsa all the time she had - position: 8
writing;  mr. samsa saw that the cleaner wanted to start describing - position: 2
"tonight she gets sacked", said  mr. samsa, but he received no reply - position: 6
other.  mr. samsa twisted round in his chair to look at them and sat - position: 2
while they were talking,  mr. and  mrs. samsa were struck, almost - position: 5

friends:
friends from other businesses, one of the chambermaids from a - position: 1
middle of the three gentlemen first smiled at his two friends, - position: 11
ahead as if waiting for something.  and indeed, his two friends - position: 11
hallway; his two friends had stopped rubbing their hands some time - position: 4

reports:
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and - position: 7

deepness:
while he called again with a warning deepness in his voice: "gregor! - position: 8

square:
the window during the day, the few square meters of the floor did - position: 8

dust:
and there were little balls of dust and filth.  at first, gregor - position: 7
dust that lay everywhere in his room and flew up at the slightest - position: 1
inflamed area around it, which was entirely covered in white dust. - position: 11

solid:
feel alright with his body; the little legs had the solid ground - position: 11

wrenching:
through the hall, wrenching open the front door of the flat as they - position: 4

teeth:
teeth - how was he, then, to grasp the key? - but the lack of teeth - position: 1
teeth - how was he, then, to grasp the key? - but the lack of teeth - position: 14
eating their chewing teeth could still be heard, as if they had - position: 4
wanted to show gregor that you need teeth in order to eat and it was - position: 8

convulsive:
broke into convulsive tears.  her father, of course, was startled - position: 3

company:
company, accuse his parents of having a lazy son, and accept the - position: 1
condemned to work for a company where they immediately became highly - position: 6
hours in the morning on company business? was it really not enough - position: 6

friend:
jumped off after their friend as if taken with a sudden fear that - position: 5

remains:
movement; he carried threads, hairs, and remains of food about on - position: 7

nobody:
office.  i know that nobody likes the travellers.  they think we - position: 5
flat.  as nobody could understand him, nobody, not even his sister, - position: 3
flat.  as nobody could understand him, nobody, not even his sister, - position: 7
the family at home - nobody wanted to be at home by themselves and - position: 5

1.e.8:
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.e.8. - position: 13
project gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.e.8 or - position: 9
unless you comply with paragraph 1.e.8 or 1.e.9. - position: 6
1.e.8.  you may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing - position: 1

sight:
curious to learn what they would say when they caught sight of him. - position: 11
they had so much to worry about at present that they had lost sight - position: 14
help himself snapping in the air with his jaws at the sight of the - position: 12
this sight, he spent four hours carrying the bedsheet over to the - position: 2
the opposite; the sight of the bare walls saddened her right to her - position: 4
the sight of gregor, he might have made her ill, so gregor hurried - position: 2
the sight of this and all its noise. - position: 2

disappointment:
back again in disappointment; not only did the pain in his tender - position: 4
had first seen him.  his disappointment at the failure of his plan, - position: 6

supernatural:
the stairway as if out there, there were some supernatural force - position: 10

boots:
highly polished boots could now be heard in the adjoining room. - position: 3
at the enormous size of the soles of his boots, but wasted no time - position: 10

invariably:
if he wanted to say something would invariably stop and gather his - position: 8

unfastened:
skirts unfastened and sliding one after another to the ground, - position: 2

discontinue:
and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of - position: 2

hardly:
sections.  the bedding was hardly able to cover it and seemed ready - position: 5
shocked when he heard his own voice answering, it could hardly be - position: 11
and while gregor gushed out these words, hardly knowing what he was - position: 8
something to hold onto, landed on his numerous little legs.  hardly - position: 11
even though he had been living in it for five years.  hardly aware - position: 12
could hardly breathe in that narrow space.  half suffocating, he - position: 2
lid, and carried everything out.  she had hardly turned her back - position: 8
hardly had the two women pushed the chest of drawers, groaning, out - position: 1
nightgown when he came back in the evenings; who was hardly even - position: 11
hardly keep his eyes open; his thoughts became too slow for him to - position: 1
gregor hardly slept at all, either night or day.  sometimes he would - position: 2
was to be punished still more for what she had done, as hardly had - position: 13
how considerate he was but now it hardly occurred to him that he had - position: 8
concentrated on crawling as fast as he could and hardly noticed that - position: 10
he was hardly inside his room before the door was hurriedly shut, - position: 3
he could already hardly feel the decayed apple in his back or the - position: 4

shabbier:
as a result of this it slowly became even shabbier despite the - position: 10

concealed:
were concealed behind carefully carved furniture full of notches and - position: 2

air:
fresh air it occurred to him that if he let himself fall it would be - position: 2
help himself snapping in the air with his jaws at the sight of the - position: 6
her face.  a strong draught of air flew in from the street towards - position: 7
by himself, the little legs along one side hung quivering in the air - position: 13
with a few air holes in it; the main thing holding the family back - position: 4
morning the fresh air had something of warmth mixed in with it.  it - position: 4

enthusiasm:
behind the door, gregor nodded with enthusiasm in his pleasure at - position: 7

non:
the project gutenberg literary archive foundation is a non profit - position: 9

wearing:
of wearing nice clothes, sleeping late, helping out in the business, - position: 2
of wearing them at functions and celebrations.  but the loudest - position: 2

excessive:
fact, apart from excessive sleepiness after sleeping for so long, - position: 4

unhappy:
looked at him in unhappy silence.  his mother lay in her chair with - position: 5

revolting:
sad and revolting form, was a family member who could not be treated - position: 3

irs:
status with the irs. - position: 4

indemnify:
1.f.6.  indemnity - you agree to indemnify and hold the foundation, the - position: 6

hell:
become friendly with them.  it can all go to hell!"  he felt a - position: 10

scraped:
he lay at an angle in the doorway, one flank scraped on the white - position: 11

means:
creating the works from public domain print editions means that no - position: 9
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon - position: 3
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon - position: 10

proper:
a proper human room although a little too small, lay peacefully - position: 2
him upset than through any proper decision, he swang himself with - position: 6
lock with his mouth.  he seemed, unfortunately, to have no proper - position: 11

came:
their expectations was still at home, and soon his father came - position: 11
gregor!"  at the other side door his sister came plaintively: - position: 9
if somebody came to help him.  two strong people - he had his father - position: 3
entrusted to you - but i came near to giving him my word of honour - position: 6
he must have been causing some kind of damage as a brown fluid came - position: 14
during the day, no-one came, and the keys were in the other sides. - position: 5
opened the door again straight away and came in on tip-toe as if - position: 8
before gregor came out again from under the couch and stretched - position: 3
she came into the room a little earlier than usual and found him - position: 2
before his sister came back and she seemed much more uneasy than - position: 4
that maybe it would be better if his mother came in, not every day - position: 10
sister came in and looked round to see that everything in the room - position: 2
came back first while grete in the next room had her arms round the - position: 1
came back. - position: 1
they had not allowed themselves a long rest and came back quite - position: 10
against it so that his father, when he came in from the hall, could - position: 9
that; "ah!", he shouted as he came in, sounding as if he were both - position: 7
there entombed in his bed when gregor came back from his business - position: 8
nightgown when he came back in the evenings; who was hardly even - position: 4
around her head came every morning and evening to do the heaviest - position: 4
he could crawl about, he was forced to, but later on he came to - position: 13
rented the room came in in the evening and the light was put on. - position: 4
the doorway with a dish of meat and soon behind her came his sister - position: 12
father came into the living room before he went into the kitchen, - position: 2
chance came.  was he an animal if music could captivate him so? it - position: 2
when the cleaner came in early in the morning - they'd often asked - position: 4
shoulders,  mrs. samsa just came out in her nightdress; and that is - position: 5
the food came out again just the same as when it went in". gregor's - position: 3
way up and came nearer than they were,  mr. samsa and the women came - position: 4
way up and came nearer than they were,  mr. samsa and the women came - position: 14
to her contractor and grete to her principal.  the cleaner came in - position: 11

will:
somebody will have come round from work to ask what's happened to me - position: 2
samples and set off.  will you please just let me leave? you can - position: 5
going, in to the office? yes? will you report everything accurately, - position: 7
has been removed, he will certainly work with all the more diligence - position: 5
sister, so that i'm trapped in a difficult situation, but i will - position: 12
because of that, but he turned, almost against his own will, away - position: 11
her own free will; she would sit beside him on the couch with her - position: 4
here i will, of course, pay nothing at all, on the contrary i will - position: 3
here i will, of course, pay nothing at all, on the contrary i will - position: 14
would have gone of his own free will.  we wouldn't have a brother - position: 8
this and all associated files of various formats will be found in: - position: 9
updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions - position: 3
will be renamed. - position: 1
are removed.  of course, we hope that you will support the project - position: 9
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  additional terms will be linked - position: 9
trademark owner, and any distributor under this agreement will not be - position: 9
goals and ensuring that the project gutenberg-tm collection will - position: 9

corporation:
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the - position: 3

smell:
actually was that had drawn him over to it; it was the smell of - position: 13
because he couldn't stand the smell.  long after he had finished - position: 6
filled the room with its smell.  the gentlemen bent over the dishes - position: 6

raisins:
few raisins and almonds; some cheese that gregor had declared - position: 2

case:
more, would he have been entirely wrong in this case? gregor did in - position: 10

victim:
easily fall victim to gossip and chance and groundless complaints, - position: 3

unknown:
seemed to him that he was being shown the way to the unknown - position: 13

balls:
and there were little balls of dust and filth.  at first, gregor - position: 5

copies:
do not charge anything for copies of this ebook, complying with the - position: 6
all copies of project gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession. - position: 2
distribute copies of a project gutenberg-tm work in a format other than - position: 2
1.e.8.  you may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing - position: 9
destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium - position: 3
and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of - position: 11
providing copies of project gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance - position: 2

french:
had taken a sales job, learned shorthand and french in the evenings - position: 9

strangers:
strangers, his sister ran back and forth behind her desk at the - position: 1
with strangers and others he had forgotten, but instead of helping - position: 2

food:
train connections, bad and irregular food, contact with different - position: 6
left side make it difficult to eat the food - he was only able to - position: 9
in some other food that was more suitable? if she didn't do it - position: 4
as eating so much food had rounded out his body a little and he - position: 5
broom and swept up the left-overs, mixing them in with the food he - position: 12
this was how gregor received his food each day now, once in the - position: 7
say when he had diligently cleared away all the food left for him, - position: 10
quietly through the night, his food soon stopped giving him any - position: 6
how she could please him but would hurriedly push some food or other - position: 11
find himself next to the food that had been prepared for him he - position: 6
with a dish piled high with potatoes.  the food was steaming, and - position: 9
set in front of them as if they wanted to test the food before - position: 13
movement; he carried threads, hairs, and remains of food about on - position: 9
the food came out again just the same as when it went in". gregor's - position: 2

divided:
see his brown belly, slightly domed and divided by arches into stiff - position: 8

humanly:
humanly possible to look after it and be patient, i don't think - position: 1

compilation:
or pglaf), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of project - position: 5

modest:
joining in with a few modest pleasures and most of all playing the - position: 6

untidiness:
sure he'll be good enough to forgive the untidiness of your room." - position: 9

opportunity:
gregor soon had the opportunity to test the strength of his - position: 5
things back out again when she had time and the opportunity, or to - position: 11
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to - position: 12

albeit:
to her so that she would not look round and said, albeit hurriedly - position: 12

snapped:
of the lock as it snapped back was gregor's sign that he could break - position: 6

chosen:
chosen! travelling day in and day out.  doing business like this - position: 1
smaller and cheaper than the current one which had been chosen by - position: 11

combed:
normally unkempt white hair was combed down painfully close to his - position: 6

near:
there was a cautious knock at the door near his head.  "gregor", - position: 9
entrusted to you - but i came near to giving him my word of honour - position: 7
less distinct every day, even things that were quite near; he had - position: 10
who, because of him, might be near to death; he could not open the - position: 7
just lifted up one of the chairs from near the door and stood there - position: 9
then, once they were alone, they ate in near perfect silence.  it - position: 9
anywhere near gregor.  she rushed over to behind her father, who had - position: 2

halt:
thereby brought gregor's father to a halt.  "i declare here and - position: 7

hefty:
ground.  then his father gave him a hefty shove from behind which - position: 8

slight:
slight itch up on his belly; pushed himself slowly up on his back - position: 1
lying in bed.  he remembered that he had often felt a slight pain in - position: 12
of what he was doing other than a slight feeling of shame, he - position: 9
time and whether, perhaps, any slight improvement could be seen. - position: 6

help:
if somebody came to help him.  two strong people - he had his father - position: 5
little legs would find a use.  should he really call for help - position: 12
with him, and were ready to help.  the first response to his - position: 7
fingers spread shouting: "help, for pity's sake, help!"  the way she - position: 4
fingers spread shouting: "help, for pity's sake, help!"  the way she - position: 8
help himself snapping in the air with his jaws at the sight of the - position: 1
help, his appeals were simply not understood, however much he humbly - position: 1
now gregor's sister also had to help his mother with the cooking; - position: 7
able to do by herself; she did not dare to ask for help from her - position: 13
gregor's father was not there and fetch his mother to help her.  as - position: 11
furniture away would really be any help to him.  she thought just - position: 7
to help too - he could save his picture later, although he stuck - position: 2
leave her work to help her mother, but nothing would have any effect - position: 5
continue being of help to him. - position: 4
required a great deal of effort and he was using his head to help - position: 14
to work.  he could not help panting loudly with the effort and had - position: 6
and help preserve free future access to project gutenberg-tm electronic - position: 2
and how your efforts and donations can help, see sections 3 and 4 - position: 8
archive foundation, how to help produce our new ebooks, and how to - position: 5

town:
never goes out in the evenings; he's been in town for a week now but - position: 10
other way.  during gregor's short periods in town, conversation with - position: 8
open country outside the town.  they had the tram, filled with warm - position: 5

mistakes:
make mistakes about his employees and judge them more harshly than - position: 2

impression:
enough sleep and felt fully rested.  but he had the impression that - position: 11
impression of a chase as everything went so slowly.  gregor remained - position: 1

pouring:
coffee was pouring down onto the carpet. - position: 3

thirty:
with anyone.  for thirty years, he produced and distributed project - position: 4

seats:
sunshine, all to themselves.  leant back comfortably on their seats, - position: 10

dominated:
dare enter a room dominated by gregor crawling about the bare walls - position: 5

almost:
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  you may copy it, give it away or - position: 1
it went so slowly; and finally, almost in a frenzy, when he - position: 7
almost the whole year away from the office, so that we can very - position: 1
and it's almost impossible to defend yourself from that sort of - position: 3
was so pleased he almost laughed, as he was even hungrier than he - position: 5
because of that, but he turned, almost against his own will, away - position: 7
decisions, as early the next morning, almost before the night had - position: 7
already sucking greedily at the cheese which had immediately, almost - position: 10
representative almost overnight, bringing with it the chance to earn - position: 2
hurriedly open almost as if she were suffocating.  even if it was - position: 3
swing to it; and up there, relaxed and almost happy, it might happen - position: 9
almost whispering as if wanting gregor (whose whereabouts she did - position: 1
think of any other way of saving himself than running; he almost - position: 12
gregor had almost entirely stopped eating.  only if he happened to - position: 3
"if he could just understand us", said his father almost as a - position: 10
state a little while before and almost without noticing it.  he - position: 7
to.  the almost vertical little ostrich feather on her hat, which - position: 3
while they were talking,  mr. and  mrs. samsa were struck, almost - position: 11
quieter.  just from each other's glance and almost without knowing - position: 8
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  you may copy it, give it away or - position: 1

dried:
body was indeed completely dried up and flat, they had not seen it - position: 5

fresh:
all feel particularly fresh and lively.  and even if he did catch - position: 4
fresh air it occurred to him that if he let himself fall it would be - position: 1
up.  i'm still in bed now.  i'm quite fresh again now, though.  i'm - position: 9
fresh foods, on the other hand, he didn't like at all, and even - position: 1
eyebrows, his piercing, dark eyes looked out fresh and alert; his - position: 8
morning the fresh air had something of warmth mixed in with it.  it - position: 3

morning:
one morning, when gregor samsa woke from troubled dreams, he found - position: 2
instance, whenever i go back to the guest house during the morning - position: 12
enveloped in morning fog and the view had little confidence or cheer - position: 3
hours in the morning on company business? was it really not enough - position: 4
then the chief clerk called "good morning,  mr. samsa". "he isn't - position: 7
stubborn; and i'm sure he isn't well, he said this morning that he - position: 11
suddenly seem to be showing off with peculiar whims.  this morning, - position: 11
injured in the events of that morning - it was nearly a miracle that - position: 7
had been that morning, and immediately dipped his head into the - position: 4
vain.  the previous morning while the doors were locked everyone had - position: 4
come into gregor's room any more until morning; that gave him plenty - position: 8
decisions, as early the next morning, almost before the night had - position: 6
morning while his parents and the maid were still asleep, and the - position: 1
doctor and the locksmith that first morning to get them out of the - position: 7
around her head came every morning and evening to do the heaviest - position: 6
morning and at midday, and in the evening she would sweep it away - position: 1
slightly every evening and morning and look briefly in on him.  at - position: 5
like it! one day, early in the morning while a heavy rain struck the - position: 8
until he heard the clock tower strike three in the morning.  he - position: 11
when the cleaner came in early in the morning - they'd often asked - position: 9
morning the fresh air had something of warmth mixed in with it.  it - position: 1
her work for that morning.  the three of them at first just nodded - position: 5

harmless:
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees, - position: 1

else:
me.  why else would gregor have missed a train! the lad only ever - position: 3
"but sir", called gregor, beside himself and forgetting all else in - position: 10
pay attention to anything else, when he heard the chief clerk - position: 5
denuded of everything else that had been on it - of the lady dressed - position: 4
work; everything else was looked after by gregor's mother on top of - position: 3
unlike anything experienced by anyone else they knew or were related - position: 6
that they had no room for anywhere else, and there were now many - position: 8
else.  at first he moved it because, with no other room free where - position: 1

quarter:
past, more like quarter to seven.  had the alarm clock not rung? he - position: 4
to get out of the bed, when the clock struck quarter to seven. - position: 11
somebody called - it was his mother - "it's quarter to seven. - position: 8
but then he said to himself: "before it strikes quarter past seven - position: 10
how much she knew of what had happened but she left within a quarter - position: 14
slowly shaking his head for a quarter of an hour with his eyes - position: 7

author:
author: franz kafka - position: 1

inner:
even left the inner pane of the window open from then on. - position: 4

regret:
immediately at ease and his only regret was that his body was too - position: 7
again from outside.  but she seemed to regret her behaviour, as she - position: 8
shame and regret. - position: 3

feel:
drops of rain could be heard hitting the pane, which made him feel - position: 13
he began to feel a mild, dull pain there that he had never felt - position: 4
to feel the place with one of his legs he drew it quickly back - position: 2
everything i would, let him know just what i feel.  he'd fall right - position: 10
all feel particularly fresh and lively.  and even if he did catch - position: 2
feel completely well and even felt much hungrier than usual. - position: 1
your incomprehensible stubbornness i no longer feel any wish - position: 7
situation had been confident and wise, and that made him feel - position: 11
we arrive back home exhausted from a trip, and that's when we feel - position: 13
feel alright with his body; the little legs had the solid ground - position: 1
to remain made him feel uneasy as he lay there flat on the floor, - position: 5
although he did feel a terrible urge to rush forward from under the - position: 4
said nothing she would add, so that he would not feel selfish, that - position: 11
stare out of it.  he had used to feel a great sense of freedom from - position: 9
heart; and why wouldn't gregor feel the same way about it, he'd been - position: 6
him feel abandoned to be in an empty room like that.  then, quietly, - position: 2
enthusiastic about things and feel they must get their way whenever - position: 5
floor, all these things made him feel as if he were being assailed - position: 7
he could already hardly feel the decayed apple in his back or the - position: 5

elderly:
very slow and clumsy.  would gregor's elderly mother now have to go - position: 7
the charwoman was here.  this elderly widow, with a robust bone - position: 6

tidy:
one day - were painfully insistent on things' being tidy.  this - position: 9

banging:
was no sound of the door banging shut again; they must have left it - position: 7

middle:
being in the middle of the city, he could have thought that he was - position: 4
home and leaving it in the middle of the room it would be in his way - position: 7
down into the middle of the dinner table. - position: 4
eating it, and the gentleman in the middle, who seemed to count as - position: 8
one in the middle had produced a newspaper, given a page to each of - position: 4
the contrary", said the middle gentleman, "would the young lady not - position: 5
"mr. samsa!", shouted the middle gentleman to gregor's father, - position: 5
middle of the three gentlemen first smiled at his two friends, - position: 1
until, when he was already at the door of the room, the middle of - position: 13
"where is our breakfast?", the middle gentleman asked the cleaner - position: 6
middle of the three gentlemen somewhat disconcerted, and he smiled - position: 1

sir:
"but sir", called gregor, beside himself and forgetting all else in - position: 2
hours of rest have given me strength.  you don't need to wait, sir; - position: 13
it.  but you, sir, you have a better overview than the rest of the - position: 4

unenforceability:
the applicable state law.  the invalidity or unenforceability of any - position: 8

alarmed:
his good intention and had only been alarmed briefly.  now they all - position: 8

nonsense:
this nonsense", he thought, but that was something he was unable to - position: 2

email:
809 north 1500 west, salt lake city, ut 84116, (801) 596-1887, email - position: 12
business@pglaf.org.  email contact links and up to date contact - position: 2
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new ebooks. - position: 4

nearby:
against the back of a nearby chair and held tightly to the edges of - position: 6

splendour:
splendour, even though gregor had later earned so much that he was - position: 1

forgotten:
she had forgotten that the table was behind her with all the - position: 3
completely forgotten the chief clerk for the moment, but could not - position: 2
the two women's intentions were good.  he had nearly forgotten they - position: 10
next time the door was opened; he had long forgotten about his boss - position: 10
with strangers and others he had forgotten, but instead of helping - position: 7
amazement for their breakfasts;  they had been forgotten about. - position: 8

cash:
some receipt or document from the little cash box he had saved from - position: 8
straight into cash that he could lay on the table at home for the - position: 3

gentleman:
eating it, and the gentleman in the middle, who seemed to count as - position: 5
the contrary", said the middle gentleman, "would the young lady not - position: 6
the chair where the gentleman happened to have placed it - out of - position: 5
"mr. samsa!", shouted the middle gentleman to gregor's father, - position: 6
"where is our breakfast?", the middle gentleman asked the cleaner - position: 7

marriage:
mr. and  mrs. samsa sat upright there in their marriage bed and had - position: 10

behaved:
everything looked, what gregor had eaten, how he had behaved this - position: 10

hundreds:
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from - position: 6

rubbed:
pain, he turned it and rubbed it against the carpet. - position: 6
continually rubbed them together in gleeful anticipation of a loud - position: 2

take:
for me than they are already, and don't take sides against me at the - position: 9
was take it off again, as it was clear enough that it was no - position: 2
carrying her.  "what shall we take now, then?", said grete and - position: 6
she wanted to take her mother somewhere safe and then chase him down - position: 4
with a kind of stubbornness, gregor's father refused to take his - position: 10
himself, let the women take him to the door, send them off and carry - position: 5
the pantry where he could take all the things he was entitled to, - position: 6
might take some of it into his mouth to play with it, leave it there - position: 2
the gentlemen who rented the room would sometimes take their evening - position: 9
driven out our tenants, it obviously wants to take over the whole - position: 9
sometimes to stop and take a rest.  no-one was making him rush any - position: 5
delay, the man actually did take long strides into the front - position: 6

performed:
gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed, - position: 7

negligence:
fees.  you agree that you have no remedies for negligence, strict - position: 10

test:
gregor soon had the opportunity to test the strength of his - position: 7
sister, in her goodness, actually did bring.  in order to test his - position: 11
set in front of them as if they wanted to test the food before - position: 11

throughout:
throughout all this time, gregor could not remember having heard the - position: 1
throughout all this, gregor had lain still where the three gentlemen - position: 1
throughout numerous locations.  its business office is located at - position: 1

flat:
decision very soon.  then there was a ring at the door of the flat. - position: 14
through the hall, wrenching open the front door of the flat as they - position: 11
if he did not want to fall flat on his back before entering the - position: 8
was open and as the front door of the flat was also open he could - position: 10
must have been somebody in the flat.  "what a quiet life it is the - position: 7
to remain made him feel uneasy as he lay there flat on the floor, - position: 11
flat.  as nobody could understand him, nobody, not even his sister, - position: 1
it was out of the question to leave the flat entirely empty.  and on - position: 10
going on the rest of the flat the way he had done before.  he really - position: 7
complaint was that although the flat was much too big for their - position: 6
and he lay flat on the couch, bitter and immobile.  but his mother - position: 4
such things as one of the rooms in the flat had been rented out to - position: 10
this establishment, in the entire flat and especially in the - position: 6
repugnant conditions that prevail in this flat and with this family" - position: 7
flat and force us to sleep on the streets.  father, look, just - position: 1
hurry she still did, so that everyone in the flat knew when she'd - position: 10
body was indeed completely dried up and flat, they had not seen it - position: 8
away from the landing and went, as if relieved, back into the flat. - position: 13
after that, the three of them left the flat together, which was - position: 9
easily by moving house; what they needed now was a flat that was - position: 11

stretching:
hands, and fell into it; it looked as if he was stretching himself - position: 12

starve:
mother certainly did not want him to starve either, but perhaps it - position: 8

dull:
gregor then turned to look out the window at the dull weather. - position: 11
he began to feel a mild, dull pain there that he had never felt - position: 7

course:
some nonsensical hope.  but then of course, the maid's firm steps - position: 7
was, of course, made up for with a very strong jaw; using the jaw, - position: 3
to everything - there was, of course, no question of her ever - position: 6
burdensome about it, and the longer it went on, of course, the - position: 11
himself under the couch, of course, but he had to wait until midday - position: 6
of course, but one day a week, perhaps; she could understand - position: 2
landing on the floor with a crash.  but now, of course, he had far - position: 11
joy, but once at the door she went silent.  first, of course, his - position: 12
couch.  it was more than childish perversity, of course, or the - position: 9
without, of course, moving it an inch.  his mother was not used to - position: 3
door.  the maid, of course, had locked herself in her kitchen so - position: 5
course, the ones that gregor always thought about with longing when - position: 1
broke into convulsive tears.  her father, of course, was startled - position: 8
here i will, of course, pay nothing at all, on the contrary i will - position: 5
improvement for the time being, of course, would be achieved quite - position: 7
are removed.  of course, we hope that you will support the project - position: 4

position:
state couldn't get into that position.  however hard he threw - position: 6
he slid back into his former position.  "getting up early all the - position: 7
whatsoever to intercede on your behalf.  and nor is your position - position: 11
clerk go away in this mood if his position in the firm was not to be - position: 9
in a position to bear the costs of the whole family, and did bear - position: 3
exact position by the window after she had tidied up the room, and - position: 2
pain by changing his position; but he felt as if nailed to the spot - position: 5
so that she might be able to get a better position later on. - position: 11

redistribution:
practically anything with public domain ebooks.  redistribution is - position: 7
redistribution. - position: 1

raised:
of bed in this way and kept his head raised as he did so he could - position: 10
the chief clerk now raised his voice, "mr. samsa", he called to him, - position: 5
vigour that raised him from a junior salesman to a travelling - position: 3
room where, despite her mothers raised and imploring hands, she - position: 6
knowing it.  they asked gregor's father for explanations, raised - position: 9

vain:
vain.  the previous morning while the doors were locked everyone had - position: 1

household:
household budget became even smaller; so now the maid was dismissed; - position: 1

assistance:
assistance they need, is critical to reaching project gutenberg-tm's - position: 1

arrangement:
to see how his sister liked the new arrangement. - position: 9
impossible, "then perhaps we could come to some kind of arrangement - position: 11

actual:
liable to you for actual, direct, indirect, consequential, punitive or - position: 5

open:
his breakfast, but his sister whispered: "gregor, open the door, i - position: 8
as well, as they open up at work before seven o'clock."  and so he - position: 5
wants to speak to you personally.  so please open up this door.  i'm - position: 9
have been able to get gregor to open the door by ourselves; he's so - position: 8
the excitement, "i'll open up immediately, just a moment.  i'm - position: 4
to open the door, really did want to let them see him and to speak - position: 2
through the hall, wrenching open the front door of the flat as they - position: 5
open;  people often do in homes where something awful has happened. - position: 1
the handle of the door to open it completely. - position: 7
because he had to open the door in this way, it was already wide - position: 5
open before he could be seen.  he had first to slowly turn himself - position: 1
pressed against his open mouth and slowly retreating as if driven by - position: 4
was open and as the front door of the flat was also open he could - position: 2
was open and as the front door of the flat was also open he could - position: 13
pulled open a window, leant far out of it and pressed her hands to - position: 2
his present mood, it obviously did not occur to his father to open - position: 13
struggling for breath on the sofa by the open window.  would his - position: 9
even left the inner pane of the window open from then on. - position: 9
hurriedly open almost as if she were suffocating.  even if it was - position: 2
difficult for her to immediately open the window while he was still - position: 6
and never to have to open the door unless it was especially - position: 6
who, because of him, might be near to death; he could not open the - position: 13
drive him back but that they had only to open the door and he would - position: 10
hardly keep his eyes open; his thoughts became too slow for him to - position: 5
he saw was the door of his room being pulled open, his sister was - position: 11
up for by the door to the living room being left open every evening. - position: 12
two women took him under the arms he would abruptly open his eyes, - position: 11
front of her.  from then on she never failed to open the door - position: 11
with her mouth open, clearly intending not to close her mouth until - position: 4
gregor found it easy to give up having the door open, he had, after - position: 11
all, often failed to make use of it when it was open and, without - position: 12
room slightly open, and it remained open when the gentlemen who - position: 3
room slightly open, and it remained open when the gentlemen who - position: 7
whistled to herself, but did not waste time to yank open the bedroom - position: 11
open country outside the town.  they had the tram, filled with warm - position: 1

fortunately:
people in commerce ever become slightly unwell then, fortunately or - position: 9
there.  he, fortunately, would usually see no more than the object - position: 3

almonds:
few raisins and almonds; some cheese that gregor had declared - position: 4

saints:
hear his sister's sighs and appeals to the saints as she moved about - position: 9

freely:
on the floor; he could breathe more freely; his body had a light - position: 8
freely sharing project gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of - position: 1
remain freely available for generations to come.  in 2001, the project - position: 2
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest - position: 1
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared - position: 11

city:
being in the middle of the city, he could have thought that he was - position: 7
809 north 1500 west, salt lake city, ut 84116, (801) 596-1887, email - position: 7

totally:
that was the sort of totally pointless thing that went through his - position: 6
belly.  this picture at least, now totally covered by gregor, would - position: 7
around him, uniting herself with him totally - now gregor lost his - position: 7
- more often than not - had been left totally untouched.  she still - position: 8
room and found herself face to face with him.  he was taken totally - position: 13
no-one noticed him, though.  the family was totally preoccupied with - position: 8
which was totally beyond gregor's comprehension, his sister even - position: 3

jobs:
other about their work but all three had jobs which were very good - position: 9

creating:
creating the works from public domain print editions means that no - position: 1
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative - position: 6
creating derivative works based on this work or any other project - position: 1
public domain works in creating the project gutenberg-tm - position: 5

invalidity:
the applicable state law.  the invalidity or unenforceability of any - position: 6

web:
posted on the official project gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net), - position: 7
and the foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org. - position: 4
information can be found at the foundation's web site and official - position: 8
please check the project gutenberg web pages for current donation - position: 6
most people start at our web site which has the main pg search facility: - position: 6
this web site includes information about project gutenberg-tm, - position: 2

spot:
boss; i'd get kicked out on the spot.  but who knows, maybe that - position: 8
be sacked on the spot.  and it seemed to gregor much more sensible - position: 5
pain by changing his position; but he felt as if nailed to the spot - position: 14

full:
he had heard properly or not.  gregor had wanted to give a full - position: 13
good to eat.  however, his sister noticed the full dish immediately - position: 9
not been working - the first holiday in a life that had been full of - position: 13
while, knowing full well that she would certainly have liked to - position: 3
with that - he knew full well, right from the first day of his new - position: 5
were concealed behind carefully carved furniture full of notches and - position: 7
full beards, as gregor learned peering through the crack in the door - position: 1
*** start: full license *** - position: 3
the full project gutenberg license - position: 2
gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the full project - position: 12
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  see - position: 6
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full project - position: 11
access to, the full project gutenberg-tm license must appear prominently - position: 4
1.e.4.  do not unlink or detach or remove the full project gutenberg-tm - position: 10
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the project - position: 8
form.  any alternate format must include the full project gutenberg-tm - position: 8
- you provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies - position: 4
does not agree to the terms of the full project gutenberg-tm - position: 9
- you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.f.3, a full refund of any - position: 9
literary archive foundation are tax deductible to the full extent - position: 9

lot:
a lot, but it had not been touched in the meantime and some interest - position: 2
strain and no success - he had put on a lot of weight and become - position: 10
insist; she had indeed noticed that gregor needed a lot of room to - position: 10
paragraph 1.c below.  there are a lot of things you can do with project - position: 7

recognised:
recognised as the voice he had had before.  as if from deep inside - position: 1

two:
if somebody came to help him.  two strong people - he had his father - position: 7
instance, it only took him two or three evenings, you'll be amazed - position: 6
and the two girls, their skirts swishing, immediately ran out - position: 3
at his father.  then she unfolded her arms, took two steps forward - position: 10
badly on his two rows of legs.  one of the legs had been badly - position: 4
inedible two days before; a dry roll and some bread spread with - position: 2
only in secret.  for two whole days, all the talk at every mealtime - position: 5
about the same subject as there were always at least two members of - position: 11
perhaps, one or two years, no more.  that's to say, it was money - position: 4
useless and frequently been annoyed with her.  but now the two of - position: 11
life led by the family during these two months, must have made him - position: 8
hardly had the two women pushed the chest of drawers, groaning, out - position: 4
the two women's intentions were good.  he had nearly forgotten they - position: 2
he got into the habit of closely watching it for one or two hours - position: 13
two women took him under the arms he would abruptly open his eyes, - position: 1
peace i get in my old age!"  and supported by the two women he would - position: 12
the salesmen and the apprentices, that stupid teaboy, two or three - position: 9
out of his chair and the two parents looked on astonished and - position: 7
an authority for the other two, did indeed cut off a piece of meat - position: 6
hand pushed in between two buttons on his uniform coat; his mother, - position: 5
middle of the three gentlemen first smiled at his two friends, - position: 10
ahead as if waiting for something.  and indeed, his two friends - position: 10
sweetly.  the other two held their hands behind their backs and - position: 4
said", answered  mr. samsa, and, with his two companions, went in a - position: 8
hallway; his two friends had stopped rubbing their hands some time - position: 3
word and left the premises.  mr. samsa and the two women followed - position: 10
bit of attention". the two women immediately did as he said, - position: 5

noticeably:
he became noticeably short of breath, even in his earlier life his - position: 3

smoke:
especially unnerving, the way they all blew the smoke from their - position: 9

travelling:
lay spread out on the table - samsa was a travelling salesman - and - position: 10
chosen! travelling day in and day out.  doing business like this - position: 2
top of that there's the curse of travelling, worries about making - position: 8
sleep.  other travelling salesmen live a life of luxury.  for - position: 3
from his travelling, of locking all doors at night even when he was - position: 3
travelling salesmen. - position: 1
without travelling i couldn't earn my living.  so where are you - position: 2
vigour that raised him from a junior salesman to a travelling - position: 11

greatly:
key."  gregor was greatly encouraged by this; but they all should - position: 4

original:
request, of the work in its original "plain vanilla ascii" or other - position: 7

preserve:
and help preserve free future access to project gutenberg-tm electronic - position: 3

practice:
him like a wild man.  gregor had never had any practice in moving - position: 11

armour-like:
his armour-like back, and if he lifted his head a little he could - position: 2

clerk's:
reply to this question, the chief clerk's firm footsteps in his - position: 7
dishevelled from bed despite the chief clerk's being there, looked - position: 7
gregor's father seized the chief clerk's stick in his right hand - position: 6

representative:
representative almost overnight, bringing with it the chance to earn - position: 1

print:
creating the works from public domain print editions means that no - position: 7

wasting:
pointing, without wasting any more words, with his forefinger at - position: 3

rented:
such things as one of the rooms in the flat had been rented out to - position: 13
the gentlemen who rented the room would sometimes take their evening - position: 4
rented the room came in in the evening and the light was put on. - position: 1
rented a room out before and therefore showed an exaggerated - position: 1

page:
one in the middle had produced a newspaper, given a page to each of - position: 11
and the foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org. - position: 5
page at http://pglaf.org - position: 1

fix:
opportunities to fix the problem. - position: 3

today:
slowly resolve themselves today.  he did not have the slightest - position: 4
that had happened to him today could ever happen to the chief clerk - position: 6
construed as friendly.  "he's enjoyed his dinner today", she might - position: 8
"you're doing so much sewing again today!", as if he did not know - position: 7

www.gutenberg.net:
with this ebook or online at www.gutenberg.net - position: 7
with this ebook or online at www.gutenberg.net - position: 7
posted on the official project gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net), - position: 9

cause:
in private, but since you cause me to waste my time here for no good - position: 6
would cause great expense that would have to be made up for in some - position: 2
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any project gutenberg-tm - position: 2
project gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any defect you cause. - position: 9

listen:
quiet so that he could listen to what the chief clerk was saying. - position: 6
"listen", said the chief clerk in the next room, "he's turning the - position: 1
although gregor wasn't able to hear any news directly he did listen - position: 12
wouldn't listen, would you."  it was clear to gregor that grete had - position: 2
family in the light of the dinner table and listen to their - position: 10
coughing to listen, "it'll be the death of both of you, i can see it - position: 3

angle:
he lay at an angle in the doorway, one flank scraped on the white - position: 5

concerning:
gutenberg-tm work.  the foundation makes no representations concerning - position: 8
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from - position: 3

consequential:
liable to you for actual, direct, indirect, consequential, punitive or - position: 8

underwear:
lamp, would sew fancy underwear for a fashion shop; his sister, who - position: 5

rung:
past, more like quarter to seven.  had the alarm clock not rung? he - position: 12
should have been; it certainly must have rung.  yes, but was it - position: 8

sew:
lamp, would sew fancy underwear for a fashion shop; his sister, who - position: 3

salts:
smelling salts to bring her mother out of her faint; gregor wanted - position: 2

footsteps:
reply to this question, the chief clerk's firm footsteps in his - position: 9

library:
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared - position: 4

nonetheless:
he was no longer able to lift his head, but he nonetheless felt - position: 12
but nonetheless lifted his feet unusually high.  gregor was amazed - position: 2
the family themselves ate in the kitchen.  nonetheless, gregor's - position: 8
but it was nonetheless enough to see that nothing behind him had - position: 4

agree:
his sister, unfortunately, did not agree; she had become used to the - position: 6
gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the full project - position: 3
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to - position: 10
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  if you do not agree to abide by all - position: 7
gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the - position: 8
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  there are a few - position: 1
does not agree to the terms of the full project gutenberg-tm - position: 3
fees.  you agree that you have no remedies for negligence, strict - position: 3
provided in paragraph f3.  you agree that the foundation, the - position: 6
1.f.6.  indemnity - you agree to indemnify and hold the foundation, the - position: 4

1.e.1:
1.e.1.  the following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate - position: 1
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.e.1 - position: 11
must comply with both paragraphs 1.e.1 through 1.e.7 and any additional - position: 6
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.e.1 with - position: 9
license as specified in paragraph 1.e.1. - position: 6

report:
would have put in his report about gregor's not being there a long - position: 6
going, in to the office? yes? will you report everything accurately, - position: 9
good news to report, but would only do it if she was clearly asked - position: 4

withdrew:
they  withdrew back to the window with their heads sunk and talking - position: 2

heaven:
drawers.  "god in heaven!" he thought.  it was half past six and the - position: 4

http://www.pglaf.org:
and the foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org. - position: 7

bring:
that he would not bring his thoughts to any sensible conclusions by - position: 5
as if he perhaps expected the total stillness to bring things back - position: 10
immediately by the door, resolved either to bring the timorous - position: 8
was, realise that it was not from any lack of hunger and bring him - position: 13
curious as to what she would bring in its place, imagining the - position: 7
sister, in her goodness, actually did bring.  in order to test his - position: 7
for the first fourteen days, gregor's parents could not bring - position: 10
smelling salts to bring her mother out of her faint; gregor wanted - position: 4

done:
done in bed", gregor said to himself, "so don't keep trying to do - position: 1
easily done, probably because of the practise he had already had in - position: 2
have been calling to him, his father and his mother too: "well done, - position: 13
if she had done her an enormous service.  she even swore - position: 4
done things. - position: 1
clearly worn into the floor, the desk where he had done his homework - position: 11
going on the rest of the flat the way he had done before.  he really - position: 12
was to be punished still more for what she had done, as hardly had - position: 11
after gregor as she had done before was even more work for her, but - position: 6
can say is: we have to try and get rid of it.  we've done all that's - position: 14
his sister.  all he had done was begin to turn round so that he - position: 6
something they had not done for months, and took the tram out to the - position: 5

patience:
time being he must remain calm, he must show patience and the - position: 10

pack:
have kept calm, "i'll get dressed straight away now, pack up my - position: 10

floundering:
wouldn't have to look at the floundering legs, and only stopped when - position: 7

1.f.3:
- you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.f.3, a full refund of any - position: 7
of replacement or refund" described in paragraph 1.f.3, the project - position: 8
1.f.3.  limited right of replacement or refund - if you discover a - position: 1
in paragraph 1.f.3, this work is provided to you 'as-is,' with no other - position: 3

cope:
cope for himself? i think it'd be best to leave the room exactly the - position: 1

created:
gutenberg literary archive foundation was created to provide a secure - position: 6
project gutenberg-tm ebooks are often created from several printed - position: 6

homework:
clearly worn into the floor, the desk where he had done his homework - position: 13

chase:
she wanted to take her mother somewhere safe and then chase him down - position: 11
door if he did not want to chase his sister away, and she had to - position: 8
impression of a chase as everything went so slowly.  gregor remained - position: 4

melancholy:
following the lines of music with a careful and melancholy - position: 10

strength:
hours of rest have given me strength.  you don't need to wait, sir; - position: 7
efforts, he bit on the key with all his strength, paying no - position: 10
gregor soon had the opportunity to test the strength of his - position: 9
strength she had.  the chest of drawers was something that gregor - position: 1
efforts to muster all the strength he could for running he could - position: 6
behest of the customers, but they just did not have the strength to - position: 12
her not to keep slamming the doors but with her strength and in her - position: 11

ideas:
definite ideas.  he sat upright, played with his uniform cap between - position: 2

rushing:
remind himself that calm consideration was much better than rushing - position: 10

remedies:
fees.  you agree that you have no remedies for negligence, strict - position: 8

things:
as if he perhaps expected the total stillness to bring things back - position: 11
same demands as before? there was no need to worry about things like - position: 12
of these things.  maybe you haven't read the latest contracts i sent - position: 3
work my way out of it again.  please don't make things any harder - position: 11
breakfast things on it; when she reached the table she sat quickly - position: 2
taste, she brought him a whole selection of things, all spread out - position: 9
that gregor would know he could make things as comfortable for - position: 8
dragged the things he did want to eat a little way away from them - position: 3
things so that they could all forget about it as quickly as - position: 1
when explaining things, his father repeated himself several times, - position: 3
done things. - position: 2
less distinct every day, even things that were quite near; he had - position: 6
parents about the things that concerned him.  this meant that his - position: 4
enthusiastic about things and feel they must get their way whenever - position: 3
floor, all these things made him feel as if he were being assailed - position: 4
did not have the time to explain things to him even if that had been - position: 8
ought to have expected things to have changed, but still, still, was - position: 5
the pantry where he could take all the things he was entitled to, - position: 9
structure that made her able to withstand the hardest of things in - position: 11
there.  they had got into the habit of putting things into this room - position: 10
such things as one of the rooms in the flat had been rented out to - position: 2
one day - were painfully insistent on things' being tidy.  this - position: 7
things had become superfluous which, although they could not be - position: 1
sold, the family did not wish to discard.  all these things found - position: 11
things back out again when she had time and the opportunity, or to - position: 1
things that you can do with most project gutenberg-tm electronic works - position: 1
paragraph 1.c below.  there are a lot of things you can do with project - position: 9

unbearable:
that unbearable hissing! it was making gregor quite confused.  when - position: 2
unbearable and would continue to do so, she probably even had to - position: 1

distinctly:
stayed awake all that time, as they all could be distinctly heard as - position: 11

copying:
copying and distributing project gutenberg-tm electronic works to - position: 1
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative - position: 1
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or - position: 3
performing, copying or distributing any project gutenberg-tm works - position: 2

understanding:
with no understanding.  what about if he reported sick? but that - position: 3
"my child", said her father with sympathy and obvious understanding, - position: 10
playing the martyr; she attributed all possible understanding to - position: 8

reappear:
would reappear a few moments later; the further down they went, the - position: 2

confirmation:
her.  and, as if in confirmation of their new dreams and good - position: 6
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  to - position: 7

unfortunate:
"let me go and see gregor, he is my unfortunate son! can't you - position: 10

quicker:
any quicker about it.  smears of dirt were left on the walls, here - position: 2

expense:
would cause great expense that would have to be made up for in some - position: 4
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a - position: 9

shock:
immediately flew at him; gregor froze in shock; there was no longer - position: 8
to make an effort to get over the shock caused by the cleaner before - position: 9

foot:
movement, drew his foot from the living room, and rushed forward in - position: 4
foot at him as he went.  gregor's appeals to his father were of no - position: 1
turned his head his father merely stamped his foot all the harder. - position: 9
shut with her foot.  so now gregor was shut out from his mother, - position: 4
into his room with her foot before she rushed out to work in the - position: 6
the three gentlemen shouted like thunder and stamped his foot and - position: 10

watching:
earlier, but when he lay there sighing, and was once more watching - position: 12
he got into the habit of closely watching it for one or two hours - position: 8
there watching for a while.  then he called out: "come here, then. - position: 2

whole:
raising a heavy fur muff that covered the whole of her lower arm - position: 9
they have to show the whole, innocent family that this was so - position: 6
again with the whole weight of his body as needed.  the clear sound - position: 4
almost the whole year away from the office, so that we can very - position: 3
- in order to see what had been happening there.  the whole of his - position: 11
eat if his whole body worked together as a snuffling whole - but the - position: 4
eat if his whole body worked together as a snuffling whole - but the - position: 11
he spent the whole night there.  some of the time he passed in a - position: 4
taste, she brought him a whole selection of things, all spread out - position: 6
press his whole body against it.  there was seldom any conversation, - position: 3
only in secret.  for two whole days, all the talk at every mealtime - position: 6
in a position to bear the costs of the whole family, and did bear - position: 10
he would often lie there the whole night through, not sleeping a - position: 7
and noise making; he would stay under the couch shivering the whole - position: 12
in his confusion as the whole room began to spin around him he fell - position: 6
would often spend the whole evening looking at all the stains on - position: 5
had enough of the whole performance and it was only now out of - position: 5
driven out our tenants, it obviously wants to take over the whole - position: 12

tell:
gone up to the boss and told him just what i think, tell him - position: 13
tell that to the boss and recommend me to him!" - position: 1
a sound to be heard.  gregor's sister would often write and tell him - position: 12
emphatically not to tell anyone the slightest about what had - position: 4
she went out again she would have to tell them exactly how - position: 9
while they were writing to tell them she was going, she'd finished - position: 6

influence:
the good influence the furniture had on his condition; and if the - position: 3

dirt:
any quicker about it.  smears of dirt were left on the walls, here - position: 7
without his sister doing anything about it; she could see the dirt - position: 12

closely:
listened very closely to all this, and approved fully.  later, - position: 3
he got into the habit of closely watching it for one or two hours - position: 7

tip:
now and then he used the tip of his stick to give directions from a - position: 7

critical:
assistance they need, is critical to reaching project gutenberg-tm's - position: 5

nothing:
doubt that the change in his voice was nothing more than the first - position: 9
probably nothing would happen to it falling onto the carpet.  his - position: 2
nothing serious.  but on the other hand, i must say that if we - position: 1
fluttered and some of them were blown onto the floor.  nothing would - position: 11
to see his good intentions as he did nothing to hinder him, in fact - position: 9
had been nothing in the way; it sounded to gregor as if there was - position: 3
said nothing she would add, so that he would not feel selfish, that - position: 2
incarcerated in his room.  he had thought that nothing at all - position: 9
naturally, tried as far as possible to pretend there was nothing - position: 11
mother, unheard for so long, that had shaken him out of it.  nothing - position: 13
gregor kept trying to assure himself that nothing unusual was - position: 8
the old days; but he had to just stand behind her doing nothing; she - position: 13
stay with his mother; there was nothing for him to do but wait; and, - position: 7
leave her work to help her mother, but nothing would have any effect - position: 9
nothing he would have wanted, he made plans of how he could get into - position: 1
here i will, of course, pay nothing at all, on the contrary i will - position: 7
but it was nonetheless enough to see that nothing behind him had - position: 9
made her usual brief look in on gregor and at first found nothing - position: 13

sake:
fingers spread shouting: "help, for pity's sake, help!"  the way she - position: 7
somewhere, for god's sake, he couldn't have flown away - she was so - position: 4
slowly for his sake; who would place his stick down carefully and, - position: 4

eventually:
his body eventually followed slowly in the direction of the head. - position: 3
any moment.  eventually, though, gregor realised that he had no - position: 3

damp:
he was tired and getting into the damp bed in some small hotel room. - position: 8

u.s:
permitted by u.s. federal laws and your state's laws. - position: 3
outside the united states.  u.s. laws alone swamp our small staff. - position: 5
editions, all of which are confirmed as public domain in the u.s. - position: 12

away:
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  you may copy it, give it away or - position: 11
this explanation and shuffled away.  but this short conversation - position: 5
away from the bed, bend down with the load and then be patient and - position: 1
away.  gregor is ill.  quick, get the doctor.  did you hear the way - position: 1
have kept calm, "i'll get dressed straight away now, pack up my - position: 8
almost the whole year away from the office, so that we can very - position: 5
what caused them.  please, don't go away, at least first say - position: 7
but the chief clerk had turned away as soon as gregor had started to - position: 7
clerk go away in this mood if his position in the firm was not to be - position: 3
as he crouched there on the floor.  his mother was not far away in - position: 13
straight away, but he was afraid that if he took the time to do that - position: 2
because of that, but he turned, almost against his own will, away - position: 12
they went away together on tip-toe.  it was clear that no-one would - position: 3
away, but when she did notice him under the couch - he had to be - position: 1
somewhere, for god's sake, he couldn't have flown away - she was so - position: 9
opened the door again straight away and came in on tip-toe as if - position: 6
dragged the things he did want to eat a little way away from them - position: 12
sister would send the maid away on some errand.  gregor's father and - position: 6
say when he had diligently cleared away all the food left for him, - position: 7
furniture away would really be any help to him.  she thought just - position: 2
taking the furniture away, won't it seem like we're showing that - position: 4
his room out; taking away everything that was dear to him; they had - position: 5
certainly be taken away by no-one.  he turned his head to face the - position: 4
door if he did not want to chase his sister away, and she had to - position: 11
see straight away that gregor had the best intentions and would go - position: 3
himself away, as if he could remove the surprising, the incredible - position: 2
morning and at midday, and in the evening she would sweep it away - position: 13
unpleasant for the gentlemen? we can stop it straight away."  "on - position: 10
the face of her mother, and she wiped them away with mechanical hand - position: 10
possible, he felt that he must go away even more strongly than his - position: 8
he do anything to make them look away. - position: 8
away from the landing and went, as if relieved, back into the flat. - position: 1
that made her unable to speak straight away, "well then, that thing - position: 8
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  you may copy it, give it away or - position: 11

wild:
him like a wild man.  gregor had never had any practice in moving - position: 4

possible:
possible to quietly sleep through that furniture-rattling noise? - position: 1
before, if that was possible, he could think of no way of bringing - position: 5
was not possible for him to stay in bed and that the most sensible - position: 3
too; you had to concede that it was possible.  but as if in gruff - position: 9
your employer did suggest a possible reason for your failure to - position: 6
make his voice as clear as possible, he coughed a little, but taking - position: 7
then? it's quite possible for someone to be temporarily unable to - position: 4
possible and with frequent anxious glances at his father, to turn - position: 1
be got back into his room as quickly as possible.  nor would he ever - position: 10
possible.  so then he started working especially hard, with a fiery - position: 1
naturally, tried as far as possible to pretend there was nothing - position: 6
and got it into her head to make it as easy as possible for him by - position: 13
possible.  so he fled to the door of his room and pressed himself - position: 1
not possible to perform anything with jaws that are toothless - position: 2
humanly possible to look after it and be patient, i don't think - position: 2
possible for human beings to live with an animal like that and he - position: 1
possible, he felt that he must go away even more strongly than his - position: 1
playing the martyr; she attributed all possible understanding to - position: 7

violates:
if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the - position: 11

applicable:
you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  the fee is - position: 7
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be - position: 5
the applicable state law.  the invalidity or unenforceability of any - position: 2

international:
international donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make - position: 1

time:
people all the time so that you can never get to know anyone or - position: 4
time", he thought, "it makes you stupid.  you've got to get enough - position: 1
think about i'd have given in my notice a long time ago, i'd have - position: 11
time ago.  the office assistant was the boss's man, spineless, and - position: 1
whatever sacrifice.  at the same time, though, he did not forget to - position: 6
out of the bed all at the same time.  if he succeeded in falling out - position: 9
time was now ten past seven and he would have to make a final - position: 1
intention of abandoning his family.  for the time being he just lay - position: 8
in private, but since you cause me to waste my time here for no good - position: 11
it's not the time of year to do especially good business, we - position: 4
recognise that; but there simply is no time of year to do no - position: 8
ground one at a time.  the washing up from breakfast lay on the - position: 5
work, but that's just the right time to remember what's been - position: 7
earn an enormous wage as well as having a soft time of it.  that's - position: 11
had that happened than, for the first time that day, he began to - position: 8
gregor, though, had no time to spare for his parents now; the chief - position: 5
he looked back for the last time.  gregor made a run for him; he - position: 7
straight away, but he was afraid that if he took the time to do that - position: 12
have allowed gregor the time to get himself upright as preparation - position: 5
been lit in the living room.  his father at this time would normally - position: 11
one of the doors and the other had clearly been unlocked some time - position: 13
stayed awake all that time, as they all could be distinctly heard as - position: 5
of time to think undisturbed about how he would have to re-arrange - position: 2
he spent the whole night there.  some of the time he passed in a - position: 10
his hunger, and some of the time was spent in worries and vague - position: 7
time being he must remain calm, he must show patience and the - position: 1
stay there even for the short time that his sister was in the room, - position: 7
second time after everyone had eaten their meal at midday as his - position: 2
despair, and gregor's only concern at that time had been to arrange - position: 8
partly because it was a long time since he had been occupied with - position: 7
understand everything the first time.  from these repeated explanations - position: 5
better she was able to do so, but as time went by gregor was also - position: 10
gratitude one time when he carefully looked out from under the sheet - position: 3
time and whether, perhaps, any slight improvement could be seen. - position: 1
important; so his sister had no choice but to choose some time when - position: 12
been thrown down by chance.  gregor also refrained, this time, from - position: 10
she would strain herself.  this lasted a very long time.  after - position: 10
used to this furniture in his room for a long time and it would make - position: 11
find everything unchanged and he'll be able to forget the time in - position: 11
did not have the time to explain things to him even if that had been - position: 5
angry and glad at the same time.  gregor drew his head back from the - position: 7
at the enormous size of the soles of his boots, but wasted no time - position: 14
all this time on the floor, largely because he feared his father - position: 3
now, without even taking the time for careful aim, threw one apple - position: 6
who, in this tired and overworked family, would have had time to - position: 11
next time the door was opened; he had long forgotten about his boss - position: 2
at the same time she became touchy in a way that was quite new for - position: 4
anything she couldn't use for the time being she would just chuck in - position: 7
things back out again when she had time and the opportunity, or to - position: 8
corner.  one time, though, the charwoman left the door to the living - position: 3
throughout all this time, gregor could not remember having heard the - position: 4
attempted to drive them back into their room at the same time as - position: 12
mother, who still had not had time to catch her breath, began to - position: 7
whistled to herself, but did not waste time to yank open the bedroom - position: 8
hallway; his two friends had stopped rubbing their hands some time - position: 11
had been a source of irritation to  mr. samsa all the time she had - position: 12
improvement for the time being, of course, would be achieved quite - position: 4
practical.  all the time, grete was becoming livelier.  with all the - position: 4
it they agreed that it would soon be time to find a good man for - position: 9

horrible:
himself transformed in his bed into a horrible vermin.  he lay on - position: 8
this peace and wealth and comfort should come to a horrible and - position: 11
most horrible.  in itself, his sister's not coming into the room - position: 2

particularly:
all feel particularly fresh and lively.  and even if he did catch - position: 3
and held particularly good promise for the future.  the greatest - position: 3
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt - position: 5

wyllie:
translated by david wyllie. - position: 4
translator: david wyllie - position: 3
copyright (c) 2002 david wyllie. - position: 5
translated by david wyllie - position: 4
translated by david wyllie. - position: 4

gifted:
very fond of music and a gifted and expressive violinist, it was his - position: 7

liable:
liable to you for actual, direct, indirect, consequential, punitive or - position: 1

tools:
already taken out the chest containing his fretsaw and other tools; - position: 11

thoughts:
that he would not bring his thoughts to any sensible conclusions by - position: 7
wisdom to investigate it? and more because these thoughts had made - position: 9
hardly keep his eyes open; his thoughts became too slow for him to - position: 7
and the chief clerk, but they would appear again in his thoughts, - position: 12

explained:
explained to gregor's mother and sister what their finances and - position: 1

opening:
beg of you."  gregor, however, had no thought of opening the door, - position: 10
"they're not opening the door", gregor said to himself, caught in - position: 3
opening; tried to reach the chief clerk on the landing who, - position: 1

street:
unfortunately, even the other side of the narrow street was - position: 9
grey-black building on the other side of the street - which was a - position: 9
her face.  a strong draught of air flew in from the street towards - position: 12
electric street lamps shone palely here and there onto the ceiling - position: 2
street, but now he could not see it at all, and if he had not known - position: 1
that he lived in charlottenstrasse, which was a quiet street despite - position: 10

it'd:
cope for himself? i think it'd be best to leave the room exactly the - position: 6

monotonous:
lack of any direct human communication, along with the monotonous - position: 10

consciousness:
consciousness. - position: 1

write:
a sound to be heard.  gregor's sister would often write and tell him - position: 10

darkest:
the family having noticed it, lain in his room in its darkest - position: 12

firmly:
against its glass, it held him firmly and felt good on his hot - position: 7

motors:
knocking into each other as if they had electric motors.  an apple - position: 10

tip-toe:
they went away together on tip-toe.  it was clear that no-one would - position: 6
opened the door again straight away and came in on tip-toe as if - position: 11
up and went on tip-toe over to the door of the hallway where they - position: 5

tug:
closed and refusing to get up.  gregor's mother would tug at his - position: 10
way forward to his sister and tug at her skirt to show her she might - position: 7

cap:
scalp.  he took his cap, with its gold monogram from, probably, some - position: 5
bowed once with his cap in his hand and did his round of the table. - position: 5
definite ideas.  he sat upright, played with his uniform cap between - position: 10

lifted:
his armour-like back, and if he lifted his head a little he could - position: 7
regard for what might happen.  one side of his body lifted itself, - position: 11
door and lifted it towards his father.  he really had not imagined - position: 3
but nonetheless lifted his feet unusually high.  gregor was amazed - position: 3
just lifted up one of the chairs from near the door and stood there - position: 2
until then, but now he was not lifted up on his little legs, nor did - position: 8

forwards:
hands were quietly moving forwards, it was even later than half - position: 5
carelessly shoved himself forwards with all the force he could - position: 4
than ever, was to drive gregor forwards all the harder as if there - position: 7
father stopped, scurried forwards again when he moved, even - position: 4

samsa:
one morning, when gregor samsa woke from troubled dreams, he found - position: 5
lay spread out on the table - samsa was a travelling salesman - and - position: 7
then the chief clerk called "good morning,  mr. samsa". "he isn't - position: 9
explaining it,  mrs. samsa", said the chief clerk, "i hope it's - position: 4
the chief clerk now raised his voice, "mr. samsa", he called to him, - position: 9
business at all,  mr. samsa, we cannot allow there to be." - position: 5
"mr. samsa!", shouted the middle gentleman to gregor's father, - position: 2
mr. and  mrs. samsa sat upright there in their marriage bed and had - position: 4
side, they hurried out of bed.  mr. samsa threw the blanket over his - position: 8
shoulders,  mrs. samsa just came out in her nightdress; and that is - position: 3
"dead?", asked  mrs. samsa, looking at the charwoman enquiringly, - position: 4
the broom, sending it sideways across the floor.  mrs. samsa made a - position: 10
complete it.  "now then", said  mr. samsa, "let's give thanks to god - position: 7
"grete, come with us in here for a little while", said  mrs. samsa - position: 13
then the door of the bedroom opened and  mr. samsa appeared in his - position: 10
"leave my home.  now!", said  mr. samsa, indicating the door and - position: 7
said", answered  mr. samsa, and, with his two companions, went in a - position: 4
then", he said, and looked up at  mr. samsa as if he had been - position: 9
mr. samsa for his decision.  mr. samsa merely opened his eyes wide - position: 2
mr. samsa for his decision.  mr. samsa merely opened his eyes wide - position: 7
mr. samsa might go into the hallway in front of them and break the - position: 2
word and left the premises.  mr. samsa and the two women followed - position: 7
more that the samsa family lost interest in them; when a butcher's - position: 4
way up and came nearer than they were,  mr. samsa and the women came - position: 10
three letters of excusal,  mr. samsa to his employers,  mrs. samsa - position: 6
three letters of excusal,  mr. samsa to his employers,  mrs. samsa - position: 11
in irritation.  "well?", asked  mr. samsa.  the charwoman stood in - position: 6
had been a source of irritation to  mr. samsa all the time she had - position: 9
you want then?", asked  mrs. samsa, whom the cleaner had the most - position: 6
that's all been sorted out."   mrs. samsa and grete bent down over - position: 7
writing;  mr. samsa saw that the cleaner wanted to start describing - position: 3
"tonight she gets sacked", said  mr. samsa, but he received no reply - position: 7
other.  mr. samsa twisted round in his chair to look at them and sat - position: 3
while they were talking,  mr. and  mrs. samsa were struck, almost - position: 8

joy:
joy, but once at the door she went silent.  first, of course, his - position: 1

need:
"gregor? aren't you well? do you need anything?"  gregor answered to - position: 7
same demands as before? there was no need to worry about things like - position: 8
hours of rest have given me strength.  you don't need to wait, sir; - position: 10
"so, i didn't need the locksmith after all". then he lay his head on - position: 4
violin.  whenever they began to talk of the need to earn money, - position: 9
wanted to show gregor that you need teeth in order to eat and it was - position: 7
they were in serious need of it.  so they sat at the table and wrote - position: 5
assistance they need, is critical to reaching project gutenberg-tm's - position: 3

compliance:
freely sharing project gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of - position: 7
states.  compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a - position: 2
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  to - position: 9
send donations or determine the status of compliance for any - position: 8
keep ebooks in compliance with any particular paper edition. - position: 4

repugnant:
repugnant conditions that prevail in this flat and with this family" - position: 1

quite:
quite sad.  "how about if i sleep a little bit longer and forget all - position: 1
quite easily, and despite its breadth and its weight, the bulk of - position: 1
probably avoid injuring it.  his back seemed to be quite hard, and - position: 10
a way that is quite unheard of.  i'm speaking here on behalf of your - position: 5
immediate explanation.  i am astonished, quite astonished.  i - position: 6
up.  i'm still in bed now.  i'm quite fresh again now, though.  i'm - position: 8
just getting out of bed.  just a moment.  be patient! it's not quite - position: 13
as easy as i'd thought.  i'm quite alright now, though.  it's - position: 7
shocking, what can suddenly happen to a person! i was quite alright - position: 11
hospital - could be seen quite clearly with the austere and regular - position: 5
then? it's quite possible for someone to be temporarily unable to - position: 3
front of him and seemed, at first, quite engrossed in herself, but - position: 8
choice as he saw, to his disgust, that he was quite incapable of - position: 11
that unbearable hissing! it was making gregor quite confused.  when - position: 8
money in quite different ways.  gregor converted his success at work - position: 3
about it quite hard and decided he would let them know what he - position: 3
onto the cool, leather sofa next to it, as he became quite hot with - position: 12
less distinct every day, even things that were quite near; he had - position: 9
fond of hanging from the ceiling; it was quite different from lying - position: 9
they had not allowed themselves a long rest and came back quite - position: 12
but grete's words had made her mother quite worried, she stepped to - position: 8
conversation - with everyone's permission, in a way, and thus quite - position: 10
see quite well, though, that there were more reasons than - position: 2
would have been quite easy to transport him in any suitable crate - position: 4
at the same time she became touchy in a way that was quite new for - position: 13
his eyes in acceptance of his sister's certainty that that was quite - position: 12
could go back into his room, although that was in itself quite - position: 12
hands in the pockets of their well-worn coats. it was now quite - position: 12
everything in detail but, with outstretched hand, he made it quite - position: 11
improvement for the time being, of course, would be achieved quite - position: 11

owed:
respect he owed to his tenants.  he urged them and pressed them - position: 3
owed to the owner of the project gutenberg-tm trademark, but he - position: 1

sink:
on him.  he would just sink deeper into his chair.  only when the - position: 6

rounded:
as eating so much food had rounded out his body a little and he - position: 7

spread:
lay spread out on the table - samsa was a travelling salesman - and - position: 2
spread themselves out around her as her head disappeared down onto - position: 1
fingers spread shouting: "help, for pity's sake, help!"  the way she - position: 2
taste, she brought him a whole selection of things, all spread out - position: 11
inedible two days before; a dry roll and some bread spread with - position: 11
and spread himself out, all his senses in confusion.  the last thing - position: 2
had been.  he rushed up to them with his arms spread out and - position: 11
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of - position: 1

shoved:
carelessly shoved himself forwards with all the force he could - position: 2

hunger:
his hunger, and some of the time was spent in worries and vague - position: 2
was, realise that it was not from any lack of hunger and bring him - position: 11
and perhaps also because he was weak from hunger, made it impossible - position: 9

charwoman:
an enormous, thick-boned charwoman with white hair that flapped - position: 4
the charwoman was here.  this elderly widow, with a robust bone - position: 2
only they had told this charwoman to clean up his room every day - position: 6
was like a kind of attack.  instead of being afraid, the charwoman - position: 12
their way in there too.  the charwoman was always in a hurry, and - position: 7
corner.  one time, though, the charwoman left the door to the living - position: 6
"dead?", asked  mrs. samsa, looking at the charwoman enquiringly, - position: 8
in irritation.  "well?", asked  mr. samsa.  the charwoman stood in - position: 8
from either his wife or his daughter as the charwoman seemed to have - position: 10

offered:
though, was offered a seat by one of the gentlemen and sat - leaving - position: 3

laboriously:
the instrument on her mother's lap who still sat laboriously - position: 10

except:
1.f.2.  limited warranty, disclaimer of damages - except for the "right - position: 7
liability, breach of warranty or breach of contract except those - position: 9
1.f.4.  except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth - position: 2

former:
he slid back into his former position.  "getting up early all the - position: 6

game:
method was more of a game than an effort, all he had to do was rock - position: 6

scurried:
father stopped, scurried forwards again when he moved, even - position: 3

appeared:
provincial hotel, a tender memory that appeared and disappeared - position: 7
serious but too slow, - all of them appeared to him, mixed together - position: 8
up their knives and forks.  gregor's mother immediately appeared in - position: 9
gregor's father soon appeared with the music stand, his mother with - position: 4
then the door of the bedroom opened and  mr. samsa appeared in his - position: 11

gain:
sister to gain their attention too, "that with regard to the - position: 3

object:
there.  he, fortunately, would usually see no more than the object - position: 11

definitely:
six years i suppose - that's definitely what i'll do.  that's when - position: 6
i'll definitely have to have got properly out of bed.  and by then - position: 2

properly:
he had heard properly or not.  gregor had wanted to give a full - position: 4
i'll definitely have to have got properly out of bed.  and by then - position: 7
couldn't sleep properly where he was and he really had to get his - position: 3

startling:
startling as his pain-wracked condition meant that turning round - position: 1

party:
gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a project - position: 6

sales:
had taken a sales job, learned shorthand and french in the evenings - position: 4

earned:
splendour, even though gregor had later earned so much that he was - position: 7
money to live on had to be earned.  his father was healthy but old, - position: 8
and to go for a walk; not only had they earned a break from work but - position: 11

backwards:
unthinking way she was hurrying backwards showed that she did not; - position: 6
backwards and was only able to go very slowly.  if gregor had only - position: 1
going backwards in a straight line; so he began, as quickly as - position: 2
backwards to the far end of the couch.  in his startlement, though, - position: 1

come:
certainly come round with the doctor from the medical insurance - position: 2
somebody will have come round from work to ask what's happened to me - position: 4
even necessary - did the chief clerk have to come himself, and did - position: 9
clerk has come round and wants to know why you didn't leave on the - position: 3
business considerations."  "can the chief clerk come in to see you - position: 7
he had just come.  he was pleased when he finally had his head in - position: 4
this peace and wealth and comfort should come to a horrible and - position: 8
come into gregor's room any more until morning; that gave him plenty - position: 1
even before the first day had come to an end, his father had - position: 7
times and they had never come again, at least not with the same - position: 6
day when he could have freed himself from that job would have come - position: 13
had she come in than she would quickly close the door as a - position: 3
there, but not only did she not come in, she went straight back and - position: 8
themselves to come into the room to see him.  he would often hear - position: 3
mother until later and was simply glad that she had come.  "you can - position: 11
come in, he can't be seen", said his sister, obviously leading her - position: 1
come very close to forgetting, and it had only been the voice of his - position: 1
and with a tremor in her voice: "come on, let's go back in the - position: 8
as when it was new.  after they had come back from taking his father - position: 9
probably considered friendly, such as "come on then, you old - position: 6
like to come in and play for us here in the room, where it is, after - position: 3
playing, gregor had dared to come forward a little and already had - position: 6
hands in their pockets and come up far too close behind the music - position: 6
come into his room with her violin, as no-one appreciated her - position: 1
it last christmas - had christmas really come and gone already? - if - position: 7
coming.  we can't all work as hard as we have to and then come home - position: 14
impossible, "then perhaps we could come to some kind of arrangement - position: 6
doors and shout loudly into the darkness of the bedrooms: "come and - position: 11
"grete, come with us in here for a little while", said  mrs. samsa - position: 2
silent sign to the men that they might like to come into gregor's - position: 11
there watching for a while.  then he called out: "come here, then. - position: 10
let's forget about all that old stuff, shall we.  come and give me a - position: 10
remain freely available for generations to come.  in 2001, the project - position: 7

stupid:
time", he thought, "it makes you stupid.  you've got to get enough - position: 7
the salesmen and the apprentices, that stupid teaboy, two or three - position: 7

wrote:
they were in serious need of it.  so they sat at the table and wrote - position: 15

prohibition:
there had been some secret prohibition on leaving the room.  it was - position: 6
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition - position: 11

drawn:
better.  he felt that he had been drawn back in among people, and - position: 8
actually was that had drawn him over to it; it was the smell of - position: 5
one on each side, to the movements of her hands.  drawn in by the - position: 11

kept:
of bed in this way and kept his head raised as he did so he could - position: 7
it with his little legs.  by now he had also calmed down, and kept - position: 14
have kept calm, "i'll get dressed straight away now, pack up my - position: 2
gregor kept trying to assure himself that nothing unusual was - position: 2
this coat, with its gold buttons always kept polished and shiny, - position: 8
the door to this room was often kept closed in the evening.  but - position: 8
had kept free without any necklace or collar. - position: 2
kept nodding it could be seen that he was not sleeping at all. - position: 1

resounding:
disappeared; his shouts resounding all around the staircase.  the - position: 4

dead:
'ave a look at this, it's dead, just lying there, stone dead!" - position: 7
'ave a look at this, it's dead, just lying there, stone dead!" - position: 12
"dead?", asked  mrs. samsa, looking at the charwoman enquiringly, - position: 1

actually:
actually was that had drawn him over to it; it was the smell of - position: 1
sister, in her goodness, actually did bring.  in order to test his - position: 5
this unexpected thrift and caution.  he could actually have used - position: 8
than experienced,  as what he actually saw in this way was becoming - position: 6
throw everything out in one go, but what actually happened was that - position: 9
able to actually move around on those spindly little legs until then - position: 3
delay, the man actually did take long strides into the front - position: 4

unnatural:
was unnatural.  he also felt relatively comfortable.  it is true - position: 2

thought:
"what's happened to me?" he thought.  it wasn't a dream.  his room, - position: 6
this nonsense", he thought, but that was something he was unable to - position: 4
"oh, god", he thought, "what a strenuous career it is that i've - position: 4
time", he thought, "it makes you stupid.  you've got to get enough - position: 3
drawers.  "god in heaven!" he thought.  it was half past six and the - position: 6
beg of you."  gregor, however, had no thought of opening the door, - position: 8
at this thought. - position: 3
and gregor's back was also more elastic than he had thought, which - position: 11
thought i knew you as a calm and sensible person, and now you - position: 1
as easy as i'd thought.  i'm quite alright now, though.  it's - position: 5
of any thought for the future.  gregor, though, did think about the - position: 3
enter the room but thought better of it.  gregor went and waited - position: 5
thought of how his finger had still hurt the day before yesterday. - position: 1
"am i less sensitive than i used to be, then?", he thought, and was - position: 12
thought that he could understand them, so he had to be content to - position: 1
incarcerated in his room.  he had thought that nothing at all - position: 7
parents did not like to hear this innocent talk, but gregor thought - position: 12
being in the middle of the city, he could have thought that he was - position: 11
closed the door behind her, a stranger would have thought he had - position: 10
sheet where it was.  gregor even thought he glimpsed a look of - position: 7
furniture away would really be any help to him.  she thought just - position: 11
thought at first, but all the furniture apart from the all-important - position: 1
life, that his father thought it necessary to always be extremely - position: 5
course, the ones that gregor always thought about with longing when - position: 7
despair, and the thought that they had been struck with a misfortune - position: 4
even if he was not hungry.  gregor's sister no longer thought about - position: 11
anger that no-one had even thought of closing the door to save him - position: 6
first he thought it was distress at the state of his room that - position: 3
"maybe now they'll let me turn round", thought gregor and went back - position: 8
he thought back of his family with emotion and love.  if it was - position: 2
special.  she thought he was laying there so still on purpose, - position: 3
simultaneously, with the thought of how their daughter was - position: 4

highly:
condemned to work for a company where they immediately became highly - position: 11
highly polished boots could now be heard in the adjoining room. - position: 1
while the old man in it would sleep, highly uncomfortable but - position: 9
in gregor's room and, highly aggrieved, ran back into the living - position: 5

wind:
exclaim a loud "oh!", which sounded like the soughing of the wind. - position: 12

hall:
the entrance hall, clapping his hands, "get a locksmith here, now!" - position: 3
through the hall, wrenching open the front door of the flat as they - position: 3
respect for his uniform and bearing.  the door to the entrance hall - position: 12
only when he had reached the entrance hall that he made a sudden - position: 8
a panic.  in the hall, he stretched his right hand far out towards - position: 5
she would close the front door in the entrance hall and talk him out - position: 10
against it so that his father, when he came in from the hall, could - position: 13

re-arrange:
of time to think undisturbed about how he would have to re-arrange - position: 12

4557:
the foundation's principal office is located at 4557 melan dr. s. - position: 8

something's:
"something's fallen down in there", said the chief clerk in the room - position: 1

skirts:
and the two girls, their skirts swishing, immediately ran out - position: 6
towards gregor and sank down onto the floor into her skirts that - position: 11
skirts unfastened and sliding one after another to the ground, - position: 1
stumbling over the skirts she pushed herself to his father, her arms - position: 4

opened:
went to the door as ever and opened it.  gregor only needed to hear - position: 8
opened very slightly and hurriedly closed again; later on the door - position: 1
was; but the door was opened no more that night and gregor waited in - position: 6
wanted to get in there to him, but now, now that he had opened up - position: 14
ended, his sister, nearly fully dressed, opened the door from the - position: 7
opened the door again straight away and came in on tip-toe as if - position: 1
how he opened the complicated lock and then closed it again after he - position: 3
before it was opened and then, lying in the darkness of his room - position: 4
next time the door was opened; he had long forgotten about his boss - position: 6
day, rather than any real curiosity, she opened the door to gregor's - position: 8
was without moving as if the door had never even been opened.  if - position: 12
she soon realised what had really happened, opened her eyes wide, - position: 8
how they went into gregor's room.  on the way they opened the door - position: 11
and opened the window wide.  although it was still early in the - position: 2
then the door of the bedroom opened and  mr. samsa appeared in his - position: 7
mr. samsa for his decision.  mr. samsa merely opened his eyes wide - position: 9

sighs:
hear his sister's sighs and appeals to the saints as she moved about - position: 4

bad:
train connections, bad and irregular food, contact with different - position: 3
bad had happened, that he was responsible for some act of violence. - position: 1
they were not at all bad - until then they had never asked each - position: 6

commercial:
like to do my job; being a commercial traveller is arduous but - position: 8
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial - position: 7

strained:
would be extremely strained and suspicious as in fifteen years of - position: 4

hiss:
door of his room at once to hiss and spit at the attackers; his - position: 8

kissed:
hurrying over to him where they kissed him and hugged him and then - position: 7

pillows:
pillows and covers on the beds flew up and were put into order and - position: 1

pglaf:
or pglaf), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of project - position: 2

impatiently:
now then?", asked his father impatiently, knocking at the door - position: 6

piercing:
line of windows piercing its facade; the rain was still - position: 4
eyebrows, his piercing, dark eyes looked out fresh and alert; his - position: 3

unchanged:
find everything unchanged and he'll be able to forget the time in - position: 3

aim:
now, without even taking the time for careful aim, threw one apple - position: 9

decisions:
decisions, as early the next morning, almost before the night had - position: 1

great:
from the doctor and the locksmith he expected great and surprising - position: 9
felt a great pride that he was able to provide a life like that in - position: 3
hurried back under the couch.  but he needed great self-control to - position: 9
would cause great expense that would have to be made up for in some - position: 3
stare out of it.  he had used to feel a great sense of freedom from - position: 11
great as that, caused himself no damage.  very soon his sister - position: 1
was not a loss but a great advantage. - position: 7
his head in the living room.  before, he had taken great pride in - position: 11
required a great deal of effort and he was using his head to help - position: 3
amazed at the great distance that separated him from his room, and - position: 4

middle-aged:
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  it exists - position: 4

job:
chief clerk in, because he was in danger of losing his job and if - position: 12
like to do my job; being a commercial traveller is arduous but - position: 5
this job would provide for gregor for his entire life, and besides, - position: 2
have to do the job himself.  and without considering that he still - position: 5
day when he could have freed himself from that job would have come - position: 10
adult's appreciation of the burdensome job she had taken on. - position: 6
heavy for them to get the job finished before gregor's father got - position: 7
had taken a sales job, learned shorthand and french in the evenings - position: 5

franz:
the project gutenberg ebook of metamorphosis, by franz kafka - position: 8
author: franz kafka - position: 2
franz kafka - position: 1
end of the project gutenberg ebook of metamorphosis, by franz kafka - position: 10

awkwardly:
bed, perhaps caused by lying awkwardly, but that had always turned - position: 6

methods:
methods and addresses.  donations are accepted in a number of other - position: 1

paleness:
been asleep, and the paleness of her face seemed to confirm this. - position: 5

prevented:
clear that she was not to.  so, as she was prevented from telling - position: 11

choose:
important; so his sister had no choice but to choose some time when - position: 10
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to - position: 6

held:
made the sound muffled and not too noticeable.  he had not held his - position: 12
against the back of a nearby chair and held tightly to the edges of - position: 9
the other door which was still held bolted in place.  in this way - position: 7
future.  the chief clerk had to be held back, calmed down, convinced - position: 8
an end.  he held back the urge to move but swayed from side to side - position: 4
held her head suggested she wanted to see gregor better, but the - position: 1
released him from where he was held and sent him flying, and heavily - position: 7
though, she had to be held back by force, which made her call out: - position: 6
against its glass, it held him firmly and felt good on his hot - position: 5
they no longer held the lively conversations of earlier times, of - position: 4
and the hand that held it.  the woman most likely meant to fetch the - position: 5
cough dully, her hand held out in front of her and a deranged - position: 5
sweetly.  the other two held their hands behind their backs and - position: 5
and held particularly good promise for the future.  the greatest - position: 2

released:
released him from where he was held and sent him flying, and heavily - position: 1

overcome:
because as soon as he touched it he was overcome by a cold shudder. - position: 10
unfortunately as you like, we simply have to overcome it because of - position: 9
overcome the urge to flee when she saw the little bit of him that - position: 1
had overcome the despair she had fallen into when her playing was - position: 2
suddenly overcome with humility and wanted permission again from - position: 2

becoming:
becoming fully used to the situation - that gregor would sometimes - position: 1
than experienced,  as what he actually saw in this way was becoming - position: 12
not turn it all the way round as he felt his neck becoming stiff, - position: 13
practical.  all the time, grete was becoming livelier.  with all the - position: 7

posture:
boy, proud of posture with his tray on his head, passed them on his - position: 4

slightly:
see his brown belly, slightly domed and divided by arches into stiff - position: 5
people in commerce ever become slightly unwell then, fortunately or - position: 6
slightly unwell, an attack of dizziness, i haven't been able to get - position: 1
opened very slightly and hurriedly closed again; later on the door - position: 3
a month earlier he had cut his finger slightly with a knife, he - position: 9
slightly.  in this way they went round the room several times - position: 1
slightly every evening and morning and look briefly in on him.  at - position: 1
room slightly open, and it remained open when the gentlemen who - position: 2

dissuade:
so she refused to let her mother dissuade her.  gregor's mother - position: 8
dissuade him from it.  on hearing all this, his sister would break - position: 1

nowadays:
all of them were usually very quiet nowadays.  soon after dinner, - position: 8

oppressed:
oppressed with anxiety and self-reproach, he began to crawl about, - position: 1

fully:
enough sleep and felt fully rested.  but he had the impression that - position: 5
ended, his sister, nearly fully dressed, opened the door from the - position: 5
becoming fully used to the situation - that gregor would sometimes - position: 2
listened very closely to all this, and approved fully.  later, - position: 9
this deterioration in his condition was fully (in his opinion) made - position: 7
gregor's father would slumber where he was, fully dressed, as if - position: 8
gentlemen had moved in; she was fully dressed as if she had never - position: 7

forget:
quite sad.  "how about if i sleep a little bit longer and forget all - position: 13
whatever sacrifice.  at the same time, though, he did not forget to - position: 11
things so that they could all forget about it as quickly as - position: 7
find everything unchanged and he'll be able to forget the time in - position: 9
him quickly forget his past when he had still been human.  he had - position: 3
let's forget about all that old stuff, shall we.  come and give me a - position: 2

dream:
"what's happened to me?" he thought.  it wasn't a dream.  his room, - position: 10
mentioned as a lovely dream that could never be realised.  their - position: 5

customers:
behest of the customers, but they just did not have the strength to - position: 4

ways:
money in quite different ways.  gregor converted his success at work - position: 5
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card - position: 1

language:
language: english - position: 1

sixteen:
father; the sixteen year old maid had carried on bravely since the - position: 3

space:
the other of the double doors so that gregor would have enough space - position: 13
could hardly breathe in that narrow space.  half suffocating, he - position: 7

miss:
and thoughtfully, but without moving so that he would not miss any - position: 11

inside:
recognised as the voice he had had before.  as if from deep inside - position: 13
so gregor did not go into the room, but leant against the inside of - position: 13
he was hardly inside his room before the door was hurriedly shut, - position: 4

share:
gutenberg-tm license when you share it without charge with others. - position: 5

mrs:
explaining it,  mrs. samsa", said the chief clerk, "i hope it's - position: 3
mr. and  mrs. samsa sat upright there in their marriage bed and had - position: 3
shoulders,  mrs. samsa just came out in her nightdress; and that is - position: 2
"dead?", asked  mrs. samsa, looking at the charwoman enquiringly, - position: 3
the broom, sending it sideways across the floor.  mrs. samsa made a - position: 9
"grete, come with us in here for a little while", said  mrs. samsa - position: 12
three letters of excusal,  mr. samsa to his employers,  mrs. samsa - position: 10
you want then?", asked  mrs. samsa, whom the cleaner had the most - position: 5
that's all been sorted out."   mrs. samsa and grete bent down over - position: 6
while they were talking,  mr. and  mrs. samsa were struck, almost - position: 7

get:
state couldn't get into that position.  however hard he threw - position: 3
people all the time so that you can never get to know anyone or - position: 10
time", he thought, "it makes you stupid.  you've got to get enough - position: 11
boss; i'd get kicked out on the spot.  but who knows, maybe that - position: 3
i'll make the big change.  first of all though, i've got to get up, - position: 13
to get out of the bed, when the clock struck quarter to seven. - position: 2
the first thing he wanted to do was to get up in peace without being - position: 10
disturbed, to get dressed, and most of all to have his breakfast. - position: 3
the first thing he wanted to do was get the lower part of his body - position: 9
so then he tried to get the top part of his body out of the bed - position: 6
it took just as much effort to get back to where he had been - position: 8
thing to do would be to get free of it in whatever way he could at - position: 7
couldn't get out of bed if he didn't spend at least a couple of - position: 2
have been able to get gregor to open the door by ourselves; he's so - position: 5
only just got up and had not even begun to get dressed.  and why was - position: 11
slightly unwell, an attack of dizziness, i haven't been able to get - position: 12
think you can get over an illness without staying at home.  please, - position: 4
bed - where he now tried to get himself upright.  he really did want - position: 7
away.  gregor is ill.  quick, get the doctor.  did you hear the way - position: 6
the entrance hall, clapping his hands, "get a locksmith here, now!" - position: 7
went.  how had his sister managed to get dressed so quickly? there - position: 8
have kept calm, "i'll get dressed straight away now, pack up my - position: 5
body was too broad to get through it without further difficulty.  in - position: 6
to get through.  he was merely fixed on the idea that gregor should - position: 2
have allowed gregor the time to get himself upright as preparation - position: 7
wanted to get in there to him, but now, now that he had opened up - position: 3
broad to get it all underneath. - position: 3
doctor and the locksmith that first morning to get them out of the - position: 9
heavy for them to get the job finished before gregor's father got - position: 5
enthusiastic about things and feel they must get their way whenever - position: 8
helped gregor's sister to get the chest of drawers out with what - position: 5
so that she might be able to get a better position later on. - position: 8
couldn't sleep properly where he was and he really had to get his - position: 12
sleep if he was to be up at six to get to work.  but since he had - position: 11
closed and refusing to get up.  gregor's mother would tug at his - position: 5
peace i get in my old age!"  and supported by the two women he would - position: 3
nothing he would have wanted, he made plans of how he could get into - position: 13
can say is: we have to try and get rid of it.  we've done all that's - position: 9
"we have to try and get rid of it", said gregor's sister, now - position: 6
you've got to get rid of the idea that that's gregor.  we've only - position: 4
watched as it slowly began to get light everywhere outside the - position: 7
to make an effort to get over the shock caused by the cleaner before - position: 6
in there, you needn't worry about how you're going to get rid of it. - position: 11
first to get up and stretch out her young body. - position: 3

address:
imaginable way of transferring gregor to the new address.  he could - position: 9
address specified in section 4, "information about donations to - position: 1

visitor's:
the visitor's first words of greeting and he knew who it was - the - position: 2

junk:
unless gregor made his way through the junk and moved it somewhere - position: 8

required:
required a great deal of effort and he was using his head to help - position: 1
prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax - position: 5

defective:
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a - position: 4
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a - position: 2
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further - position: 3

believing:
he was soon believing that all his sorrows would soon be finally at - position: 4
harmed ourselves by believing it for so long.  how can that be - position: 4

said:
done in bed", gregor said to himself, "so don't keep trying to do - position: 5
to offer him.  "seven o'clock, already", he said to himself when the - position: 8
but then he said to himself: "before it strikes quarter past seven - position: 4
"that'll be someone from work", he said to himself, and froze very - position: 7
"they're not opening the door", gregor said to himself, caught in - position: 7
"something's fallen down in there", said the chief clerk in the room - position: 6
him know: "gregor, the chief clerk is here."  "yes, i know", said - position: 12
"gregor", said his father now from the room to his left, "the chief - position: 2
well", said his mother to the chief clerk, while his father - position: 2
stubborn; and i'm sure he isn't well, he said this morning that he - position: 9
is, but he isn't."  "i'll be there in a moment", said gregor slowly - position: 11
explaining it,  mrs. samsa", said the chief clerk, "i hope it's - position: 5
again.  "no", said gregor.  in the room on his right there followed - position: 3
accusations you're making; nobody's ever said a word to me about any - position: 6
gregor spoke just now?"  "that was the voice of an animal", said the - position: 12
other.  whatever was said next would be crucial, so, in order to - position: 4
"listen", said the chief clerk in the next room, "he's turning the - position: 2
his concentration, and as he regained his breath he said to himself: - position: 10
"now, then", said gregor, well aware that he was the only one to - position: 3
see", he said to the chief clerk, "that i'm not stubborn and i - position: 3
"mother, mother", said gregor gently, looking up at her.  he had - position: 3
family lead", said gregor to himself, and, gazing into the darkness, - position: 3
to much of what was said in the next rooms, and whenever he heard - position: 6
said nothing she would add, so that he would not feel selfish, that - position: 1
close the matter with a big, loud "no", and no more would be said. - position: 14
come in, he can't be seen", said his sister, obviously leading her - position: 7
labouring at it for fifteen minutes or more his mother said it would - position: 11
carrying her.  "what shall we take now, then?", said grete and - position: 9
to her so that she would not look round and said, albeit hurriedly - position: 11
expected", said his father, "just as i always said, but you women - position: 2
expected", said his father, "just as i always said, but you women - position: 9
not said enough and that his father took it to mean that something - position: 2
however nice they might be.  "i'd like to eat something", said - position: 11
the contrary", said the middle gentleman, "would the young lady not - position: 3
now", he said, raising his hand and glancing at gregor's mother and - position: 3
"father, mother", said his sister, hitting the table with her hand - position: 3
"she's absolutely right", said gregor's father to himself.  his - position: 4
"we have to try and get rid of it", said gregor's sister, now - position: 10
"my child", said her father with sympathy and obvious understanding, - position: 3
"if he could just understand us", said his father almost as a - position: 7
as she turned the key in the lock she said loudly to her parents "at - position: 10
it even without checking.  "that's what i said",  replied the - position: 8
complete it.  "now then", said  mr. samsa, "let's give thanks to god - position: 5
example.  grete, who had not taken her eyes from the corpse, said: - position: 12
"grete, come with us in here for a little while", said  mrs. samsa - position: 11
"leave my home.  now!", said  mr. samsa, indicating the door and - position: 5
said", answered  mr. samsa, and, with his two companions, went in a - position: 1
then", he said, and looked up at  mr. samsa as if he had been - position: 3
before and had been listening to what was being said.  now they - position: 10
"tonight she gets sacked", said  mr. samsa, but he received no reply - position: 5
bit of attention". the two women immediately did as he said, - position: 11

refuse:
this misfortune hadn't got in the way, and refuse to let anyone - position: 9

miracle:
a miracle if his head were not injured, so he became afraid to carry - position: 2
injured in the events of that morning - it was nearly a miracle that - position: 12

carelessly:
carelessly shoved himself forwards with all the force he could - position: 1

calculated:
the use of project gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method - position: 7

already:
to offer him.  "seven o'clock, already", he said to himself when the - position: 6
when gregor was already sticking half way out of the bed - the new - position: 4
after a while he had already moved so far across that it would have - position: 6
a small symptom of it last night already.  they must have noticed - position: 8
easily done, probably because of the practise he had already had in - position: 10
called his mother, who was already in tears, "he could be seriously - position: 6
because he had to open the door in this way, it was already wide - position: 13
for me than they are already, and don't take sides against me at the - position: 6
on it! if only his sister were here! she was clever; she was already - position: 14
clerk had already reached the stairs; with his chin on the banister, - position: 3
eat.  what's more, his injuries must already have completely healed - position: 7
already sucking greedily at the cheese which had immediately, almost - position: 1
already looked uneasy in his room, she soon stopped speaking and - position: 1
already taken out the chest containing his fretsaw and other tools; - position: 1
suddenly caught by the picture on the wall - which was already - position: 11
way forward a little more slowly than them, who were already walking - position: 11
kitchen.  the three gentlemen had already finished their meal, the - position: 6
playing, gregor had dared to come forward a little and already had - position: 11
it last christmas - had christmas really come and gone already? - if - position: 10
she had already finished making the beds and slipped out again - position: 3
until, when he was already at the door of the room, the middle of - position: 5
he could already hardly feel the decayed apple in his back or the - position: 3
was already the end of march, after all. - position: 2
you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  the fee is - position: 2

gratefully:
international donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make - position: 4

newspapers:
different newspapers.  on the wall exactly opposite there was - position: 2
the stairway, the curtains flew up, the newspapers on the table - position: 8

month:
a month earlier he had cut his finger slightly with a knife, he - position: 2
money that gregor had been bringing home every month, keeping only a - position: 9
one day, about a month after gregor's transformation when his sister - position: 5
it there for more than a month, and his condition seemed serious - position: 7

retreating:
pressed against his open mouth and slowly retreating as if driven by - position: 8

sorted:
that's all been sorted out."   mrs. samsa and grete bent down over - position: 4

detach:
1.e.4.  do not unlink or detach or remove the full project gutenberg-tm - position: 6

rest:
with the size of the rest of him, waved about helplessly as he - position: 6
hours of rest have given me strength.  you don't need to wait, sir; - position: 3
responsibility and he could rest.  if, however, they took everything - position: 5
it.  but you, sir, you have a better overview than the rest of the - position: 12
they had not allowed themselves a long rest and came back quite - position: 8
going on the rest of the flat the way he had done before.  he really - position: 4
sometimes to stop and take a rest.  no-one was making him rush any - position: 7

part:
the first thing he wanted to do was get the lower part of his body - position: 12
out of the bed, but he had never seen this lower part, and could not - position: 12
part of his body might well, at present, be the most sensitive. - position: 1
so then he tried to get the top part of his body out of the bed - position: 9
stood there upright; the lower part of his body was in serious pain - position: 6
meanwhile the day had become much lighter; part of the endless, - position: 8
part of the work for herself and ignoring her mother's warnings that - position: 1
set forth in the general terms of use part of this license, apply to - position: 9
1.a.  by reading or using any part of this project gutenberg-tm - position: 7
license terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this - position: 11
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without - position: 5

slide:
to slide off any moment.  his many legs, pitifully thin compared - position: 2

breath:
his concentration, and as he regained his breath he said to himself: - position: 8
struggling for breath on the sofa by the open window.  would his - position: 3
catching their breath, he sallied out, changed direction four times - position: 3
he became noticeably short of breath, even in his earlier life his - position: 6
struggling for breath where she was, and ran into the next room - position: 3
mother, who still had not had time to catch her breath, began to - position: 11
completely, and his last breath flowed weakly from his nostrils. - position: 5

cheer:
enveloped in morning fog and the view had little confidence or cheer - position: 12

filth:
and there were little balls of dust and filth.  at first, gregor - position: 9

chairs:
just lifted up one of the chairs from near the door and stood there - position: 7
the others, and now they leant back in their chairs reading them and - position: 10
their own chairs; his father leant against the door with his right - position: 3

pair:
in by the hand.  the old chest of drawers was too heavy for a pair - position: 15

frequently:
light sleep, although he frequently woke from it in alarm because of - position: 5
useless and frequently been annoyed with her.  but now the two of - position: 3

appropriate:
anyone speaking he would scurry straight to the appropriate door and - position: 9

nightdress:
shoulders,  mrs. samsa just came out in her nightdress; and that is - position: 9

flow:
flow of coffee.  that set his mother screaming anew, she fled from - position: 1

bulk:
quite easily, and despite its breadth and its weight, the bulk of - position: 11

warning:
while he called again with a warning deepness in his voice: "gregor! - position: 7

fur:
a lady fitted out with a fur hat and fur boa who sat upright, - position: 7
a lady fitted out with a fur hat and fur boa who sat upright, - position: 10
raising a heavy fur muff that covered the whole of her lower arm - position: 4
in copious fur.  he hurried up onto the picture and pressed himself - position: 3

echo:
of echo which made them unclear, leaving the hearer unsure whether - position: 2

please:
**     please follow the copyright guidelines in this file.     ** - position: 2
wants to speak to you personally.  so please open up this door.  i'm - position: 8
continued to speak through the door.  "he isn't well, please believe - position: 10
think you can get over an illness without staying at home.  please, - position: 12
i'll be in the office soon after you, and please be so good as to - position: 10
samples and set off.  will you please just let me leave? you can - position: 7
work my way out of it again.  please don't make things any harder - position: 8
what caused them.  please, don't go away, at least first say - position: 4
how she could please him but would hurriedly push some food or other - position: 4
please read this before you distribute or use this work - position: 1
please check the project gutenberg web pages for current donation - position: 1
donations.  to donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate - position: 4

quarrel:
quarrel which could only end in their favour.  "i mean just what i - position: 1

noticing:
state a little while before and almost without noticing it.  he - position: 9

solicit:
with these requirements.  we do not solicit donations in locations - position: 7
while we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we - position: 7

thank:
if gregor had only been able to speak to his sister and thank her - position: 13

sheet:
if she did not think this sheet was necessary then all she had to do - position: 7
sheet where it was.  gregor even thought he glimpsed a look of - position: 1
gratitude one time when he carefully looked out from under the sheet - position: 12
hurriedly pulled the sheet down lower over the couch and put more - position: 4
spying out from under the sheet; he gave up the chance to see his - position: 6
he was not able to prevent the sheet at its front from moving a - position: 8

shocking:
shocking, what can suddenly happen to a person! i was quite alright - position: 1
situation seem even more shocking than it was so that she could do - position: 5
his room, not while he lived, anyway; his shocking appearance - position: 9

gutenberg:
the project gutenberg ebook of metamorphosis, by franz kafka - position: 3
re-use it under the terms of the project gutenberg license included - position: 9
** this is a copyrighted project gutenberg ebook, details below ** - position: 7
*** start of this project gutenberg ebook metamorphosis *** - position: 6
end of the project gutenberg ebook of metamorphosis, by franz kafka - position: 5
*** end of this project gutenberg ebook metamorphosis *** - position: 6
gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you - position: 1
the full project gutenberg license - position: 4
gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the full project - position: 1
1.b.  "project gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  it may only be - position: 3
1.c.  the project gutenberg literary archive foundation ("the foundation" - position: 4
works based on the work as long as all references to project gutenberg - position: 13
1.e.  unless you have removed all references to project gutenberg: - position: 10
phrase "project gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "project - position: 3
gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed, - position: 1
re-use it under the terms of the project gutenberg license included - position: 9
with the phrase "project gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the - position: 5
project gutenberg literary archive foundation.  royalty payments - position: 2
sent to the project gutenberg literary archive foundation at the - position: 5
the project gutenberg literary archive foundation." - position: 3
both the project gutenberg literary archive foundation and michael - position: 4
1.f.1.  project gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable - position: 3
gutenberg literary archive foundation, the owner of the project - position: 1
gutenberg literary archive foundation was created to provide a secure - position: 1
to learn more about the project gutenberg literary archive foundation - position: 7
section 3.  information about the project gutenberg literary archive - position: 7
the project gutenberg literary archive foundation is a non profit - position: 3
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  contributions to the project gutenberg - position: 6
section 4.  information about donations to the project gutenberg - position: 9
please check the project gutenberg web pages for current donation - position: 5
including how to make donations to the project gutenberg literary - position: 9

really:
little legs would find a use.  should he really call for help - position: 9
hours in the morning on company business? was it really not enough - position: 10
really a loud noise.  his fall was softened a little by the carpet, - position: 1
parents and of your employer, and really must request a clear and - position: 7
bed - where he now tried to get himself upright.  he really did want - position: 11
to open the door, really did want to let them see him and to speak - position: 5
he really could be at the station for eight o'clock.  the first few - position: 2
achievements - although he did not really distinguish one from the - position: 6
he really was able to start the key turning, ignoring the fact that - position: 2
that should not really be touched but set aside for emergencies; - position: 4
still just a child after all, and really might not have had an - position: 8
folds into it so that everything really looked as if it had just - position: 7
furniture away would really be any help to him.  she thought just - position: 4
why he had seriously wanted his room emptied out.  had he really - position: 12
infant school--he really could not wait any longer to see whether - position: 3
door and lifted it towards his father.  he really had not imagined - position: 9
going on the rest of the flat the way he had done before.  he really - position: 15
that really his father? the same tired man as used to be laying - position: 2
couldn't sleep properly where he was and he really had to get his - position: 9
her long life, wasn't really repelled by gregor.  just by chance one - position: 5
gregor's father observed them anxiously.  it really now seemed very - position: 7
it last christmas - had christmas really come and gone already? - if - position: 6
she soon realised what had really happened, opened her eyes wide, - position: 6

sending:
the broom, sending it sideways across the floor.  mrs. samsa made a - position: 3
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a - position: 14

opens:
as gregor opens the door.  anyway, i'm glad you're here; we wouldn't - position: 3

whatsoever:
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  you may copy it, give it away or - position: 4
whatsoever to intercede on your behalf.  and nor is your position - position: 1
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  you may copy it, give it away or - position: 4

takes:
takes much more effort than doing your own business at home, and on - position: 1
states.  compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a - position: 9

mind:
and the maid in mind - would have been more than enough; they would - position: 5
mind in his present state, pressed upright against the door and - position: 1
living room for a while?"  gregor could see what grete had in mind, - position: 13
gregor.  he probably did not even know himself what he had in mind, - position: 13

lungs:
lungs had not been very reliable.  now, as he lurched about in his - position: 1

investigate:
wisdom to investigate it? and more because these thoughts had made - position: 3

grant:
your turnover has been very unsatisfactory of late; i grant you that - position: 10
something to show that you grant that i'm at least partly right!" - position: 6

nearly:
thinks about the business.  it nearly makes me cross the way he - position: 6
he had nearly finished turning round, still listening to that - position: 3
injured in the events of that morning - it was nearly a miracle that - position: 10
milk, nearly covering his eyes with it.  but he soon drew his head - position: 2
ended, his sister, nearly fully dressed, opened the door from the - position: 4
the two women's intentions were good.  he had nearly forgotten they - position: 9
soon; grete had put her arm around her mother and was nearly - position: 12
nearly closed with exhaustion; his sister sat next to his father - position: 1
rules is very easy.  you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose - position: 11
gutenberg-tm electronic works.  nearly all the individual works in the - position: 4

attentive:
smoking.  when the violin began playing they became attentive, stood - position: 9

emptying:
that he could not stand all of this much longer.  they were emptying - position: 13

unused:
uniform off even at home; while his nightgown hung unused on its peg - position: 10

went:
because of that.  what should he do now? the next train went at - position: 12
long pauses between each, individual word.  his father went back to - position: 9
it went so slowly; and finally, almost in a frenzy, when he - position: 2
went to the door as ever and opened it.  gregor only needed to hear - position: 1
went.  how had his sister managed to get dressed so quickly? there - position: 1
foot at him as he went.  gregor's appeals to his father were of no - position: 6
himself round.  it went very slowly, but perhaps his father was able - position: 4
enter the room but thought better of it.  gregor went and waited - position: 10
they went away together on tip-toe.  it was clear that no-one would - position: 2
that was the sort of totally pointless thing that went through his - position: 10
burdensome about it, and the longer it went on, of course, the - position: 8
better she was able to do so, but as time went by gregor was also - position: 11
there, but not only did she not come in, she went straight back and - position: 11
threatened her and tried to bite her.  gregor went straight to hide - position: 9
she went out again she would have to tell them exactly how - position: 2
joy, but once at the door she went silent.  first, of course, his - position: 8
very still, remained there a moment, and then went back out to - position: 9
his arms and who, on the couple of times a year when they went for a - position: 14
slightly.  in this way they went round the room several times - position: 6
impression of a chase as everything went so slowly.  gregor remained - position: 7
went into one of the worst of these places when his sister arrived - position: 1
father came into the living room before he went into the kitchen, - position: 9
up and went on tip-toe over to the door of the hallway where they - position: 3
gregor as he slowly moved forward.  the violin went silent, the - position: 9
"maybe now they'll let me turn round", thought gregor and went back - position: 11
how they went into gregor's room.  on the way they opened the door - position: 3
the food came out again just the same as when it went in". gregor's - position: 12
said", answered  mr. samsa, and, with his two companions, went in a - position: 10
would reappear a few moments later; the further down they went, the - position: 11
away from the landing and went, as if relieved, back into the flat. - position: 6
round sharply and left, slamming the door terribly as she went. - position: 11
destroyed the peace they had only just gained.  they got up and went - position: 13

thoroughly:
thoroughly clean his room, and needed to use several bucketfuls of - position: 1

implied:
warranties of any kind, express or implied, including but not limited to - position: 7
1.f.5.  some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied - position: 10

provisions:
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions. - position: 10
